The did:webvh DID Method
v1.0

Specification Status: v1.0
This is the specification of the did:webvh DID Method, Version 1.0. Please note that we
continue to make cleanups (e.g., fixing typos, broken links, missing references, etc.) and
making wording clarifications in this version of the specification. With that work there will be
no changes to the meaning of the specification.
The current Editor’s Draft of the specification will be maintained in sync with this version as
the cleanups and clarifications to v1.0 are made. When a change to the meaning of the
specification is identified, the Editor’s Draft synchronization with this version will be stopped,
and this message will be updated.
Current Specification: v1.0
Specification Version: v1.0 (see Changelog)
Source of Latest Draft:  https://github.com/decentralized-identity/didwebvh
Previous Versions:
v0.5
v0.4
v0.3
Information Site: https://didwebvh.info/
Editors:
 Stephen Curran
 John Jordan, BC Gov
 Andrew Whitehead
 Brian Richter
 Michel Sahli
 Martina Kolpondinos
 Dmitri Zagdulin
 Alexander Shenshin
Participate:
 GitHub repo
 File a bug
 Commit history
Implementations:
 TypeScript
 Python
 Go - supports v03
 Rust - work in progress
 did:webvh Server
did:webvh ACA-Py Plugin

§ 1. Abstract
DID Web + Verifiable History ( did:webvh ) is an enhancement to the did:web DID method,
providing complementary features that address did:web ’s limitations as a long-lasting DID.
did:webvh features include:
The same DID-to-HTTPS transformation as did:web .
Ongoing publishing of the full history of the DID, including all of the DID Document
(DIDDoc) versions instead of, or alongside an existing did:web DIDDoc.
The ability to resolve the full history of the DID using a verifiable chain of updates to the
DIDDoc from genesis to deactivation.
A self-certifying identifier (SCID) for the DID. The SCID, globally unique and embedded in
the DID, is derived from the initial DID log entry. It ensures the integrity of the DID’s
history mitigating the risk of attackers creating a new object with the same identifier.
An optional mechanism for enabling DID portability via the SCID, allowing the DID’s web
location to be moved and the DID string to be updated, both while retaining a connection
to the predecessor DID(s) and preserving the DID’s verifiable history.
DIDDoc updates contain a proof signed by the DID Controller's authorized to update the
DID.
An optional mechanism for publishing “pre-rotation” keys to prevent the loss of control of
a DID in cases where an active private key is compromised.
An optional mechanism for having collaborating witnesses that approve of updates to the
DID by a DID Controller before publication.
Support for cryptographic agility through versioned specification upgrades, algorithmidentifying formats (e.g., multihash and Data Integrity proofs), and per-entry method
parameters in the DID log that enable DIDs to evolve cryptographically over time.
An optional mechanism for publishing the location of did:webvh watchers in the DID log
that resolvers can use as another source DID data for long term resolution or detection
of malicious DID Controllers.
DID URL path handling that defaults (but can be overridden) to automatically resolving
<did>/path/to/file by using a comparable DID-to-HTTPS translation as for the
DIDDoc.
A DID URL path <did>/whois that defaults to automatically returning (if published by the
DID controller) a Verifiable Presentation containing Verifiable Credentials with the DID as
the credentialSubject , signed by the DID. It draws inspiration from the traditional
WHOIS protocol [RFC3912], offering an easy-to-use, decentralized, trust registry.
Combined, the additional features enable greater trust, security and verifiability without
compromising the simplicity of did:web .
For information beyond this specification about the ( did:webvh ) DID method and how (and
where) it is used in practice, please visit https://didwebvh.info/

§ 2. Overview
The emergence of Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) and with them the evolution of DID
Methods continues to be a dynamic area of development in the quest for trusted, secure and
private digital identity management where the users are in control of their own data.
The did:web method, for example, leverages the Domain Name System (DNS) to perform the
DID operations. This approach is praised for its simplicity and ease of deployment, including
DID-to-HTTPS transformation and addressing some aspects of trust by allowing for DIDs to
be associated with a domain’s reputation or published on platforms such as GitHub. However,
it is not without its challenges– from trust layers inherited from the web and the absence of a
verifiable history for the DID.
Tackling these concerns, the did:webvh ( did:web + Verifiable History) DID Method aims to
enhance did:web by introducing features such as a self-certifying identifiers (SCIDs), update
key(s) and a verifiable history, akin to what is available with ledger-based DIDs, but without
relying on a ledger.
This approach not only maintains backward compatibility but also offers an additional layer
of assurance for those requiring more robust verification processes. By publishing the
resulting DID as both did:web and did:webvh , it caters to a broader range of trust
requirements, from those who are comfortable with the existing did:web infrastructure to
those seeking greater security assurances provided by did:webvh . This innovative step
represents a significant stride towards a more trusted and secure web, where the integrity of
cryptographic key publishing is paramount.
The key differences between did:web and did:webvh revolve around the core issues of
decentralization and security. did:web is recognized for its simplicity and cost-effectiveness,
allowing for easy establishment of a credential ecosystem. However, it is not inherently
decentralized as it relies on DNS domain names, which require centralized registries.
Furthermore, it lacks a cryptographically verifiable, tamper-resistant, and persistently stored
DID document. In contrast, did:webvh is an enhancement to did:web , aiming to address
these limitations by adding a verifiable history to the DID without the need for a ledger. This
method provides a more decentralized approach by ensuring that the security of the
embedded SCID does not depend on DNS. did:webvh is capable of resolving a
cryptographically verifiable trust registry and status lists, using DID-Linked Resources, which
did:web lacks. These features are designed to build a trusted web by offering a higher level
of assurance for cryptographic key publishing and management.
For backwards compatibility, and for verifiers that “trust” did:web , a did:webvh can be
trivially modified and published with a parallel did:web DID. For resolvers that want more
assurance, did:webvh provides a way to verify a did:web using the features listed in the
Abstract.
The following is a tl;dr summary of how did:webvh works:
1. did:webvh uses the same DID-to-HTTPS transformation as did:web , so did:webvh ’s
did.jsonl (JSON Lines) file is found in the same location as did:web ’s did.json file,
and supports an easy transition from did:web to gain the added benefits of did:webvh .
2. The did.jsonl is a list of JSON DID log entries, one per line, whitespace removed (per
JSON Lines). Each entry contains the information needed to derive a version of the
DIDDoc from its preceding version. The did.jsonl is also referred to as the DID Log.
3. Each DID log entry is a JSON object containing the following properties:
1. versionId – a value that combines the version number (starting at 1 and
incremented by one per version), a literal dash - , and a hash of the entry. The entry
hash calculation links each entry to its predecessor in a ledger-like chain.
2. versionTime – as asserted by the DID Controller.
3. parameters – a set of parameters that impact the processing of the current and
future log entries.
Example parameters are the version of the did:webvh specification and hash
algorithm being used, as well as the SCID and update key(s).
4. state – the new version of the DIDDoc.
5. A Data Integrity (DI) proof across the entry, signed by a DID Controller-authorized key
to update the DIDDoc.
6. If the DID Controller enables support for DID [[witnesses]], an extra file ( didwitness.json ) in the same web location contains Data Integrity proofs from witness
for DID Log entries.
4. In generating the first version of the DIDDoc, the DID calculates the SCID for the DID from
the first log entry (which includes the DIDDoc). This is done by using the string "
{SCID}" everywhere the actual SCID is to be placed in order to generate the hash. The
DID Controller then replaces the placeholders with the calculated SCID, including it as a
parameter in the first log entry, and inserting it where needed in the initial (and all
subsequent) DIDDocs. The SCID must be verified by the resolvers, to verify that the
inception event has not been tampered with. The SCID also enables an optional
portability capability, allowing a DID’s web location to be moved, while retaining the SCID
and verifiable history of the identifier.
5. A DID Controller generates and publishes the new/updated DID file by making it available
at the appropriate location on the web, based on the DID’s identifier. If a did:webvh has
watchers, a webhook is triggered to notify the watchers that an update is available and
should be retrieved.
6. Given a did:webvh DID, a resolver converts the DID to an HTTPS URL, retrieves, and
processes the DID Log did.jsonl file, generating and verifying each log entry as per the
requirements outlined in this specification.
In the process, the resolver collects all the DIDDoc versions and public keys used by
the DID currently, and in the past. This enables resolving both current and past
versions of the DID and keys.
7. did:webvh DID URLs with paths and /whois are resolved to documents published by
the DID Controller that are by default in the web location relative to the did.jsonl file.
See the note below about the powerful capability enabled by the /whois DID URL path.
8. A DID Controller can easily generate and publish a did:web DIDDoc from the latest
did:webvh DIDDoc in parallel with the did:webvh DID Log.
WARNING
A resolver settling for just the `did:web` version of the DID does not get the
verifiability of the `did:webvh` log.

An example of a did:webvh evolving through a series of versions can be seen in the
did:webvh Examples on the did:webvh information site.

§ 2.1 The /whois Use Case
The did:webvh DID Method introduces what we hope will be a widely embraced convention
for all DID Methods – the /whois path. This feature harkens back to the WHOIS protocol that
was created in the 1970s to provide a directory about people and entities in the early days of
ARPANET. In the 80’s, whois evolved into [RFC920] that has expanded into the global whois
feature we know today as [RFC3912]. Submit a whois request about a domain name, and get
back the information published about that domain.
We propose that the /whois path for a DID enable a comparable, decentralized, version of
the WHOIS protocol for DIDs. Notably, when <did>/whois is resolved (using a standard DID
service that follows the Linked-VP specification), a Verifiable Presentation (VP) may be
returned (if published by the DID Controller) containing Verifiable Credentials with the DID as
the credentialSubject , and the VP signed by the DID. Given a DID, one can gather verifiable
data about the DID Controller by resolving <did>/whois and processing the returned VP.
That’s powerful – an efficient, highly decentralized, trust registry. For did:webvh , the
approach is very simple – transform the DID to its HTTPS equivalent, and execute a GET
<https>/whois . Need to know who issued the VCs in the VP? Get the issuer DIDs from those
VCs, and resolve <issuer did>/whois for each. This is comparable to walking a CA
(Certificate Authority) hierarchy, but self-managed by the DID Controllers – and the issuers
that attest to them.
The following is a use case for the /whois capability. Consider an example of the
did:webvh controller being a mining company that has exported a shipment and created a
“Product Passport” Verifiable Credential with information about the shipment. A country
importing the shipment (the Importer) might want to know more about the issuer of the VC,
and hence, the details of the shipment. They resolve the <did>/whois of the entity and get
back a Verifiable Presentation about that DID. It might contain:
A verifiable credential issued by the Legal Entity Registrar for the jurisdiction in which the
mining company is headquartered.
Since the Importer knows about the Legal Entity Registrar, they can automate this
lookup to get more information about the company from the VC – its legal name,
when it was registered, contact information, etc.
A verifiable credential for a “Mining Permit” issued by the mining authority for the
jurisdiction in which the company operates.
Perhaps the Importer does not know about the mining authority for that jurisdiction.
The Importer can repeat the /whois resolution process for the issuer of that
credential. The Importer might (for example), resolve and verify the did:webvh DID for
the Authority, and then resolve the /whois DID URL to find a verifiable credential
issued by the government of the jurisdiction. The Importer recognizes and trusts that
government’s authority, and so can decide to recognize and trust the mining permit
authority.
A verifiable credential about the auditing of the mining practices of the mining company.
Again, the Importer doesn’t know about the issuer of the audit VC, so they resolve the
/whois for the DID of the issuer, get its VP and find that it is accredited to audit mining
companies by the London Metal Exchange according to one of its mining standards. As
the Importer knows about both the London Metal Exchange and the standard, it can
make a trust decision about the original Product Passport Verifiable Credential.
Such checks can all be done with a handful of HTTPS requests and the processing of the
DIDs and verifiable presentations. If the system cannot automatically make a trust decision,
lots of information has been quickly collected that can be passed to a person to make such a
decision.
The result is an efficient, verifiable, credential-based, decentralized, multi-domain trust registry,
empowering individuals and organizations to verify the authenticity and legitimacy of DIDs.
The convention promotes a decentralized trust model where trust is established through
cryptographic verification rather than reliance on centralized authorities. By enabling anyone
to access and validate the information associated with a DID, the “/whois” path contributes to
the overall security and integrity of decentralized networks.

§ 3. did:webvh DID Method Specification
§ 3.1 Target System
The target system of the did:webvh DID method is the host (or domain) name when the
domain specified by the DID is resolved through the Domain Name System (DNS) and verified
by processing a log of DID versions.

§ 3.2 Method Name
The namestring that identifies this DID method is: webvh . A DID that uses this method MUST
begin with the following prefix: did:webvh . Per the DID specification, this string MUST be in
lowercase. The remainder of the DID, after the prefix, is the method-specific identifier,
specified below.

§ 3.3 Method-Specific Identifier
The did:webvh method-specific identifier contains both the self-certifying identifier (SCID)
for the DID, and a fully qualified domain name (with an optional path) that is secured by a
TLS/SSL certificate. Given the DID, a transformation to an HTTPS URL is performed such that
the DID Log for the did:webvh DID can be retrieved (via an HTTP GET ) and processed to
produce the DIDDoc for the DID. As per the Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) notation
below, the SCID MUST be the first element of the method-specific identifier.
Formal rules describing valid domain name syntax are described in [RFC1035], [RFC1123], and
[RFC2181]. Each did:webvh DID’s globally unique SCID MUST be generated during the
creation of the DID based on its initial content and placed into the DID identifier for
publication and use.
The domain name element of the method-specific identifier MUST match the name found in
the SSL/TLS certificate per [RFC6125] and the its replacement [RFC9525], and it MUST NOT
include IP addresses. A port MAY be included and the colon MUST be percent encoded to
prevent a conflict with paths. Directories and subdirectories MAY optionally be included,
delimited by colons rather than slashes.
As specified in the following Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) notation [RFC2234] the
SCID MUST be present in the DID string. See examples below. The domain-segment and
path-segment elements refer to [RFC3986]’s ABNF for a Generic URL (page 49). Attempting
to replicate here the full ABNF of those elements from that RFC would inevitably be wrong.
webvh-did = "did:webvh:" scid ":" domain-segment 1+( "." domain-segment ) [ percent-en
scid = 46(base58-alphabet) ; The characters in the base58-btc-alphabet are as defined
domain-segment = ; A part of a domain name as defined in RFC3986, such as "example" an
percent-encoded-port = "%3A" ( "1" | "2" | "3" | "4" | "5" | "6" | "7" | "8" | "9" ) 1
path-segment= ; A part of a URL path as defined in RFC3986, such as "path", "to", "fol

The ABNF for a did:webvh is almost identical to that of did:web , with changes only to the
DID Method ( webvh instead of web ), and the addition of the <scid>: (defined in the SCID)
section of this specification) element in did:webvh that is not in did:web . As specified in
the DID-to-HTTPS Transformation section of this specification, did:webvh and did:web
DIDs that have the same fully qualified domain and path transform to the same HTTPS URL,
with the exception of the final file – did.json for did:web and did.jsonl for did:webvh .
For did:webvh DIDs using witnesses, another file did-witness.json is also found
(logically) beside the did.jsonl web server file. See the witnesses section of this
specification for details.

§ 3.4 The DID to HTTPS Transformation
The did:webvh method-specific identifier is defined to enable a transformation of the DID to
an HTTPS URL for publishing and retrieving the DID Log. This section defines the
transformation from DID to HTTPS URL, including a number of examples.
Given a did:webvh , the HTTPS URL for the DID Log is generated by carrying out the
following steps. The steps are carried out by the DID to determine where to publish the DID
Log, and by all resolvers to retrieve the DID Log. The process described here includes the
appropriate handling of international domain names.
1. Remove the ‘did:webvh:’ prefix from the input identifier.
2. Remove the SCID segment, which is the first segment after the prefix.
3. Transform the domain segment, the first segment (up to the first : character) of the
remaining string.
If the domain segment contains a port, decode percent-encoding and preserve the
port.
Apply Unicode normalisation as defined in [RFC3491] (see this explainer on Unicode
normalization).
Apply IDNA (Punycode) encoding as per IDNA2008 [RFC9233]. See the FAQ on IDNA
for more details. For domains that do not contain international domain name
elements, this should result in no change.
4. Transform the path, the 0 or more segments after the first : character, delimited by :
characters.
Percent-encoded each path segment per [RFC3986] to ensure a valid HTTP URL.
Replace each : character separator between the segments with a / character to
create the encoded path ( {encoded_path} ).
5. Reconstruct the HTTPS URL:
Format as https://{domain}:{port}/{encoded_path}/did.jsonl if a port is
present.
Format as https://{domain}/{encoded_path}/did.jsonl if there are path segments
and no port.
If no path segments exist, format as https://{domain}:{port}/.wellknown/did.jsonl or https://{domain}/.well-known/did.jsonl as applicable.
6. The content type for the did.jsonl file SHOULD be text/jsonl .
If the DID is using witnesses, an extra JSON file containing the witness proofs for the DID Log
Entries must be published and retrieved during resolution. The URL for the extra file is defined
by replacing the /did.jsonl at the end of the DID Log URL with /did-witness.json .
When this algorithm is used for resolving a DID path (such as <did>/whois or
<did>/path/to/file as defined in the section DID URL Handling) using the implicit
services , update step 5. to not include the .well_known/ path segment, and to append the

DID URL path instead of did.jsonl .

The following are some examples of various DID-to-HTTPS transformations based on the
processing steps specified above.

EXAMPLE
did:webvh DIDs and the corresponding web locations of their did:webvh log file. In the

examples, {SCID} is a placeholder for where the generated SCID will be placed in the
actual DIDs and HTTPS URLs. Note that when the {SCID} follows the literal
did:webvh: as a separate element, the {SCID} is not part of the HTTPS URL.
domain/ did:web -compatible
did:webvh:{SCID}:example.com -->
https://example.com/.well-known/did.jsonl

subdomain
did:webvh:{SCID}:issuer.example.com -->
https://issuer.example.com/.well-known/did.jsonl

path
did:webvh:{SCID}:example.com:dids:issuer -->
https://example.com/dids/issuer/did.jsonl

path w/ port
did:webvh:{SCID}:example.com%3A3000:dids:issuer -->
https://example.com:3000/dids/issuer/did.jsonl

internationalized domain
did:webvh:{SCID}:jp

.

.jp:

-->

https://xn--jp-cd2fp15c.xn--fsq.jp/%E7%94%A8%E6%88%B7/did.jsonl

A client resolving a did:webvh DID MAY choose to use a watcher as the source of data
about a did:webvh DID, rather than resolving the DID’s HTTPS location to retrieve the DID
Log. See the specification section on Watchers for information about did:webvh and
watchers.
The location of the did:webvh did.jsonl DID Log file is the same as where the comparable
did:web ’s did.json file is published. A DID MAY publish both DIDs and so, both files. The
process to do so is described in the publishing a parallel did:web DID section of this
specification.
WARNING
While the transformation from a did:webvh identifier to an HTTPS resource relies on DNS
resolution, clients should not assume that a did:webvh identifier is inherently bound to
or controlled by the entity associated with the corresponding DNS domain. In fact, a
did:webvh DID Log may be obtained from sources other than its corresponding HTTPS
location (perhaps indexed by its SCID), and in such cases, the same verification steps
may be applied to determine its validity.
Verification of a did:webvh identifier using this specification ensures cryptographic
validity, but that does not imbue “trust” in the identifier itself. Trust in a did:webvh DID
should be derived from external sources, such as verifiable credentials issued by trusted
parties (possibly discovered by resolving the DID’s /whois URL) or via Trust Registries
that maintain authoritative records of trusted DIDs in a given context. Implementers
should exercise caution and avoid conflating technical verification with trustworthiness,
ensuring that reliance on a did:webvh identifier is informed by independent verification
mechanisms.

§ 3.5 The DID Log File
The DID log file contains a list of entries, one for each version of the DID. A version of the DID
is an update to the contents of the resolved DIDDoc for the DID, and/or a change to the
parameters that control the generation and verification of the DID.
Each entry is a JSON object consisting of the following properties.
{ "versionId": "", "versionTime": "", "parameters": {}, "state": {}, "proof" :
[] }

1. The [JSON-SCHEMA-CORE] definition of the DID log entry data structure can be found in
the log_entry.json file in this repository.
2. The value of versionId MUST be a string consisting of the DID version number (starting
at 1 and incrementing by one per DID version), a literal dash - , and the entryHash , a
hash calculated across the log entry content. The input to the hash is chosen so as to
link each entry to its predecessor in a ledger-like chain. The input to the hash is specified
in the Entry Hash Generation and Verification section of this specification.
3. The value of versionTime MUST be a timestamp in UTC of the entry in ISO8601 format,
as asserted by the DID Controller. The timestamp MUST be the time the DID will be
retrieved by a witness or resolver, or before.
4. The JSON object parameters contains the configurations/options set by the DID
Controller to be used in the processing of current and future log entries. Permitted
parameters are defined in the did:webvh DID Method Parameters section of this
specification.
5. The JSON object state contains the DIDDoc for this version of the DID.
6. The JSON array proof contains a Data Integrity proof created for the entry and signed
by a key authorized to update the DIDDoc.
After creation, each entry has (per the JSON Lines specification) all extra whitespace
removed, a \n character appended, and the result added to the DID Log file for publication.
A more comprehensive description of how to create and update a DID log is given in steps 4 6 of the create DID section.
Examples of DID Logs and DID log entries can be found in the Examples section on the
did:webvh information website.

§ 3.6 DID Method Operations
§ 3.6.1 Create (Register)

Creating a did:webvh DID is done by carrying out the following steps.
1. Define the DID string The start of the DID MUST be the literal string “ did:webvh:
{SCID}: ”, where the {SCID} is a placeholder that will be replaced by the calculated
SCID later in the process (see step 5). This first part of the DID string is followed by a
fully qualified domain name (with an optional path) that is secured by a TLS/SSL
certificate and reflects the web location at which the DID Log ( did.jsonl ) will be
published
The DID MUST be a valid did:webvh DID as per the ABNF of a did:webvh DID defined
in the Method-Specific Identifier section of this specification.
1. Note: the SCID for a did:webvh DID is not by default in the HTTPS URL for the DID. A
DID Controller MAY include the SCID in the HTTPS URL by inserting additional
placeholder {SCID} strings into the domain name or path components of the methodspecific identifier when creating the DID. Additional instance(s) of the SCID in the
domain and/or path parts of the DID does not alter the DID-to-HTTPS transformation.
2. Generate the authorization key pair(s) Authorized keys are authorized to control (create,
update, deactivate) the DID. At the same time, generate any other key pairs that will be
placed into the initial DIDDoc for the DID.
1. If the DID is to use pre-rotation, additional key generation will be necessary to generate
the required “next” authorization keys and their corresponding pre-rotation hashes.
2. For each authorization key pair, generate a multikey based on the key pair’s public key.
The multikey representations of the public keys are placed in the updateKeys
property in parameters.
3. The public key(s) of the authorization key pair(s) MAY be used in the DIDDoc as well,
but that is not required.
3. Create the initial DIDDoc for the DID The DIDDoc MUST contain the top level id property
which MUST be the DID string from step 1, including the placement of the {SICD}
placeholder for the SCID. Other DIDDoc verifications SHOULD be performed.
All other absolute reference’s to the DID in the DIDDoc must use the form defined in step
1, with the identified placeholder for the SCID (e.g., did:webvh:
{SCID}:example.com#key-1 , did:webvh:{SCID}:example.com:dids:issuer#key-1 ,
etc.).
The DIDDoc can contain any other content as deemed necessary by the DID Controller.
1. Note: The placeholder (the string {SCID} ) MUST be in every place in the DIDDoc
where the SCID is to be placed.
4. Generate a preliminary DID Log Entry JSON object containing the same JSON properties
that will be in the published DID log entry, but with some values preset, pending
calculation of the SCID and entryHash and without the proof .
1. The value of versionId string MUST be the placeholder literal "{SCID}" .
2. The value of versionTime string MUST be a valid UTC ISO8601 date/time string, and
the represented time MUST be before or equal to the current time.
3. The value of the parameters property MUST be a JSON object defined at the
discretion of the DID Controller. The properties in this nested JSON object MUST be as
permitted in the DID Generation and Verification Parameters section of this
specification, and all required values in the first version of the DID MUST be present. In
addition, where the SCID of the DID is referenced in the parameters, the placeholder
literal string {SCID} MUST be used in place of the to-be-calculated SCID.
4. The value of the state property MUST be the initial DIDDoc as defined in the previous
step 3 of this process.
5. Update the preliminary DID Log Entry to the initial DID Log Entry Use the preliminary DID
log entry to perform the consecutive steps:
1. Calculate the SCID The preliminary JSON object MUST be used to calculate the SCID
for the DID as defined in the SCID Generation and Verification section of this
specification.
2. Replace the placeholder {SCID} Replace throughout the preliminary JSON object the
placeholder “ {SCID} ” with the calculated SCID from the previous step.
3. Calculate the Entry Hash The preliminary JSON object updated in the previous step
MUST be used to calculate the Entry Hash ( entryHash ) for the log entry, as defined in
the Entry Hash Generation and Verification section of this specification.
4. Replace the preliminary versionId value The value of the versionId property MUST
be updated with the literal string 1 (for version number 1), a literal - , followed by the
entryHash value calculated in the previous step.
5. Generate the Data Integrity proof A Data Integrity proof on the preliminary JSON object
as updated in the previous step MUST be generated using an authorized key in the
required updateKeys property in the parameters object and the proofPurpose set to
assertionMethod .
6. Add the Data Integrity proof The Data Integrity proof is added to the preliminary JSON
object. The resultant JSON object is the initial DID log entry for the DID.
6. Generate the first JSON Line The DID log entry MUST be updated to be a JSON Lines
entry by removing extraneous white space and appending a carriage return, and the result
stored as the contents of the file did.jsonl .
If the DID Controller has opted to use witnesses for the DID, the required proofs from the
DID’s witnesses MUST be collected and published in the did-witness.json file before
the DID with the new version is published. See the DID Witnesses section of this
specification.
7. Publish the DID Log The complete DID Log file MUST be published at the appropriate
Web location defined by the did:webvh DID identifier (see step 1)
This is a logical operation – how a deployment serves the did.jsonl content is not
constrained.
Use the DID-to-HTTPS Transformation steps to transform the DID into the Web location
of the DID Log file.
If there are watchers configured for the DID, a webhook is triggered to notify the
watchers that a new DID is available and should be retrieved. See the Watchers section
of this specification for more details.
A controller MAY generate an equivalent did:web DIDDoc and publish it as defined in the
Publishing a Parallel did:web DID section of this specification. The did:web DIDDoc could
be used for backwards compatibility as a transition is made from did:web to did:webvh .
Verifiers using the did:web lose the verifiable properties and history of the did:webvh for
the convenience of the simple retrieval of the did:web DIDDoc.
§ 3.6.2 Read (Resolve)

The following steps MUST be executed to resolve the DIDDoc for a did:webvh DID:
1. The DID-to-HTTPS Transformation steps MUST be used to transform the DID into an
HTTPS URL for the DID file.
2. Perform an HTTPS GET request to the URL using an agent that can successfully
negotiate a secure HTTPS connection, which enforces the security requirements as
described in Security and privacy considerations.
3. When performing the DNS resolution during the HTTPS GET request, the client SHOULD
utilize [RFC8484] in order to prevent tracking of the identity being resolved.
4. The DID Log file MUST be processed as described below.
To process the retrieved DID Log file, the resolver MUST carry out the following steps on each
of the log entries in the order they appear in the file, applying the parameters set from the
current and previous entries. As noted in the DID Log File section, log entries are each a
JSON object with the following properties:
1. versionId
2. versionTime
3. parameters
4. state – the version’s DIDDoc.
5. proof – a Data Integrity proof for the log entry.
For each entry:
1. Update the currently active parameters with the parameters from the entry (if any). The
parameters MUST adhere to the did:webvh DID Method Parameters section of this
specification. Continue processing using the now active set of parameters.
While all parameters in the first Log Entry take effect immediately, some kinds of
parameters defined in later entries only take effect after that entry has been published.
For example, updating the nextKeys and witnesses arrays take effect only after the
entry in which they are defined has been published.
2. The Data Integrity proof in the entry MUST be valid and signed by an authorized key as
defined in the Authorized Keys section of this specification, and with a proofPurpose
set to assertionMethod .
1. If the DID Controller has opted to use witnesses resolvers MUST retrieve and verify the
DID’s did-witness.json file. For details, see the DID Witnesses section of this
specification.
3. Verify the versionId for the entry. The versionId is the concatenation of the version
number, a dash ( - ), and the entryHash .
1. The version number MUST be 1 for the the first log entry and MUST be incremented
by one for each subsequent log entry.
2. A dash - MUST follow the version number.
3. The entryHash MUST follow the dash, and MUST be verified using the process
defined in the Entry Hash Generation and Verification section of this specification.
4. The versionTime MUST be a valid UTC ISO8601 date/time string. The versionTime for
each log entry MUST be greater than the previous entry’s time. The versionTime of the
last entry MUST be earlier than the current time.
5. When processing the first DID log entry, verify the SCID (defined in the parameters)
according to the SCID Generation and Verification section of this specification.
6. Get the value of the log entry property state , which is the DIDDoc for the version.
1. Track and check that the DID being resolved matches the top-level id in at least one
version of the DIDDoc; otherwise, the resolution MUST be flagged as invalid.
7. If Key Pre-Rotation is being used, the hash of all updateKeys entries in the parameters
property MUST match a hash in the array of nextKeyHashes parameter from the
previous DID log entry, with exception of the first entry, as defined in the Pre-Rotation[Key
Pre-Rotation Hash Generation and Verification](#pre-rotation-key-hash-generation-andverification) section of this specification.
8. As each log entry is processed and verified, collect the following information about each
version:
1. The DIDDoc.
2. The versionId of the DIDDoc.
3. The UTC versionTime of the DIDDoc.
4. The latest list of active multikey formatted public keys authorized to update the DID,
from the updateKeys lists in the parameters.
5. If pre-rotation is being used, the hashes of authorized keys that must be used in the
updateKeys list of the next DID log entry. The pre-rotation hashes are in the
nextKeyHashes list in the parameters.
6. All other did:webvh processing configuration settings as defined by in the
parameters object.
7. Add the value of top level id
9. If the parameters for any of the versions define that some or all of the DID Log entries
must be witnessed, further verification of the witness proofs must be carried out, as
defined in the DID Witnesses section of this specification.
10. Flag failed verifications appropriately, either invalidating the entire DID or marking all
entries from the first invalid entry to the end of the log as invalid.
11. Respond to the resolution request based on verification results:
1. If all verifications pass, resolve the DID, applying any query parameters as requested.
2. If the request includes query parameters (e.g., ?versionId= or ?versionTime= ) that
reference valid DID log entries, return the corresponding DIDDoc version with a
successful status code—even if later entries in the log are invalid.
3. If the DID or DID version being resolved is invalid, return an appropriate error code.
While resolver caching policies are an implementation matter and largely outside the scope of
this specification, resolvers SHOULD NOT cache a DID that fails verification. This ensures that
the DID’s DID Controller has the opportunity to recover a DID that may have been erroneously
or maliciously invalidated.
A resolver MAY use a DID watcher in addition to, or in place of retrieving the DID information
from the source, and use that information based on their knowledge of the governance of the
watcher. See the Watchers section of this specification for more details.
As defined in the [[spec:DID-RESOLUTION]] specification, a did:webvh resolver should return
the following DID Document Metadata when resolving a did:webvh DID Document:
{
"versionId": "1-QmRRaLXwc6BjBuBPosSupJwEQ8w9f3znP7yfbpGfwcnLr6",
"versionTime": "2025-01-23T04:12:36Z",
"created": "2025-01-23T04:12:36Z",
"updated": "2025-01-23T04:12:36Z",
"scid": "QmPEQVM1JPTyrvEgBcDXwjK4TeyLGSX1PxjgyeAisdWM1p",
"portable": false,
"deactivated": false,
"ttl": "3600",
"witness": { ...
},
"watchers: [ ...
]
}

where the items in the Metadata JSON object are:
versionId — The versionId from the Log Entry of the resolved DIDDoc version.
versionTime — The versionTime from the Log Entry of the resolved DIDDoc version, in

ISO8601 timestamp format.

created — The ISO8601 timestamp of the DID’s first log entry, indicating when

(according to the DID Controller) the DID was created.

updated — The ISO8601 timestamp of the DID’s last valid log entry.
scid — The SCID] of the resolved DID.
portable — A boolean value indicating whether the resolved DID has portability active

and so may be moved in the future, as defined in the portability section of this
specification.
deactivated — A boolean indicating whether the DID has been deactivated. When
true , the DID is no longer active.

ttl - A string containing the unsigned integer value of the DID’s ttl [[ref; parameter]]

(time-to-live) in seconds. The TTL is guidance from the DID Controller for those resolving
the DID about how long to cache the DID. The value is a string containing the integer
value because the [[spec: DID-RESOLUTION]] specification requires that DID metadata not
be integers. The value needs to be converted to an integer by the resolver client before
use.
witness — An object containing the current (active in the last valid DID log entry)
configuration of witnesses for the DID. The object is as defined as the same named
object in the witness list section of this specification.
The value of the threshold attribute of the witness object is a string containing the
integer value of threshold because the [[spec: DID-RESOLUTION]] specification
requires that DID metadata not include integers. The value needs to be converted to an
integer by the resolver client before use.
watchers — An array containing the current (active in the last valid DID log entry) list of
watcher URLs that have agreed to monitor and cache the DID’s state.
The “last valid log entry” for some of the items above references the case where a DID
resolution request references a DIDDoc that was valid, but where the DID Log has later log
entries that fail verification, as noted in the DID resolution steps earlier in this section. If all
log entries pass verification, the last valid log entry is the last log entry.
When a DID resolution error occurs, the error field MUST be included in the
didResolutionMetadata , as defined by the [[spec:DID-RESOLUTION]] specification. In
addition, resolvers SHOULD provide supplemental “Problem Details” metadata following
[RFC9457], using the following structure:
"didResolutionMetadata": {
"error": "invalidDid",
"problemDetails": {
"type": "https://w3id.org/security#INVALID_CONTROLLED_IDENTIFIER_DOCUMENT_ID",
"title": "The resolved DID is invalid.",
"detail": "Parse error of the resolved DID at character 3, expected ':'."
}
}

As described in [[spec:DID-EXTENSION-RESOLUTION]], the following values MUST be used in
the error field of the resolution metadata when resolving a did:webvh DID under the
corresponding error conditions:
notFound — The DID Log or the resource referenced by a DID URL was not found. If the

DID Log does not exist at the DID’s designated HTTPS location (according to the DID-toHTTPS Transformation), the resolver MAY attempt to retrieve it from alternative sources,
such as Watchers, for verification and resolution.
invalidDid — Any error that renders the did:webvh DID invalid during resolution.
Resolvers SHOULD populate the problemDetails field to aid in diagnosing and
understanding resolution failures. The did:webvh information site may serve as a nonnormative reference for common did:webvh resolution error types and explanations.
§ Reading did:webvh DID URLs

A did:webvh resolver MUST resolve the [DID-CORE] versionId and versionTime DID URL
query parameters. The versionId query argument value MUST match the full versionId
from a DID Log entry for the resolver to return that version of the DIDDoc. If a DID Log entry
with that versionId is not found, a NotFound MUST be returned. A specified time in
ISO8601 format as the query argument for versionTime MUST return the DIDDoc from the
DID Log entry that was active at that time, if any. If the DID was not active at the specified
time, a NotFound MUST be returned.
A did:webvh resolver SHOULD resolve the DID URL query parameter versionNumber with an
integer value if there is a DID Log entry with a versionId with a matching integer prior to the
literal - – the versionNumber for that DID Log entry as defined in the process for setting
the versionId in the creating the DID section of this specification. The versionNumber
query parameter is not in the [DID-CORE] specification.
A did:webvh resolver MAY implement the resolution of the /whois and a DID URL Path
using the whois LinkedVP Service and DID URL Path Resolution Service as defined in this
specification by processing the DID Log and then dereferencing the DID URL based on the
contents of the DIDDoc. The client of a resolver that does not implement those capabilities
must use the resolver to resolve the appropriate DIDDoc, and then process the resulting DID
URLs themselves. Since the default DID-to-HTTPS URL transformation is trivial, did:webvh
DID Controllers are strongly encouraged to use the default behavior for DID URL Path
resolution.
§ 3.6.3 Update (Rotate)

To update a DID, a new, verifiable DID Log Entry must be generated, witnessed (if necessary),
appended to the existing DID Log ( did.jsonl ), and published to the web location defined by
the DID. The process to generate a verifiable DID Log Entry follows a similar process to the
Create process, as follows:
1. Make the desired changes to the DIDDoc. The top-level id in the DIDDoc MUST contain
the value of the DID.
1. If the DID is configured to support portability, the root id property in the DIDDoc MAY
be changed when the DID Controller wants to (or is forced to) publish the DID at a
different Internet location and wants to retain the SCID and history of the DID. For
details, see the DID Portability section of this specification.
2. Define the parameters JSON object to include the properties that affect the evolution of
the DID. The parameters MUST be from those listed in the did:webvh DID Method
Parameters section of this specification. Any parameters defined in the JSON object
override the previously active value, while any parameters not included imply the existing
values remain in effect. If no changes to the parameters are needed, an empty JSON
object {} MUST be used.
While all parameters in the first Log Entry take effect immediately, some types of
parameters defined in later entries only take effect after the entry has been published.
For example, rotating the keys authorized to update a DID or changing the witnesses
for a DID take effect only after the entry in which they are defined has been published.
3. Generate a preliminary DID log entry JSON object containing the following properties:
1. The value of versionId MUST be the value of versionId from the previous DID log
entry.
2. The versionTime value MUST be a string that is an ISO8601 format UTC timestamp.
The time MUST be greater than the time of the previous log entry, and MUST be the
time the DID will be retrieved by a witness or resolver, or before.
3. The parameters passed in as a JSON object.
4. Set the state JSON object to be the new version of the DIDDoc.
4. Calculate the new versionId of the new DID Log Entry, including incrementing the
version number integer and using the process described in the Entry Hash Generation
and Verification section of this specification.
5. Replace the value of the versionId property in the preliminary DID Log with the value
produced in the previous step.
6. Generate a Data Integrity proof on the DID log entry using an authorized key, as defined
in the Authorized Keys section of this specification, and the proofPurpose set to
assertionMethod .
7. If Key Pre-Rotation is being used, the hash of all updateKeys entries in the parameters
property MUST match a hash in the array of nextKeyHashes parameter from the
previous DID log entry with exception of the first entry, as defined in the Pre-Rotation[Key
Pre-Rotation Hash Generation and Verification](#pre-rotation-key-hash-generation-andverification) section of this specification.
8. The proof JSON object MUST be added as the value of the proof property in the log
entry.
9. The entry MUST be made a JSON Line by removing extra whitespace, adding a \n to the
entry.
10. If the DID Controller opts to use witnesses for the DID, the DID Controller MUST collect
the threshold of proofs from the DID’s witnesses, and update and publish the DID’s didwitness.json file. The updated did-witness.json file MUST be published BEFORE the
updated DID Log file is published. See the DID Witnesses section of this specification.
11. The new log entry MUST be appended to the existing contents of the DID Log file
did.jsonl .
12. The updated DID Log file MUST be published the appropriate location defined by the
did:webvh identifier.
This is a logical operation – how a deployment serves the did.jsonl content is not
constrained.
If there are watchers configured for the DID, webhooks are triggered to notify the
watchers that an update is available and should be retrieved. See the Watchers section
of this specification for more details.
A controller MAY generate an equivalent, updated did:web DIDDoc and publish it as defined
in the Publishing a Parallel did:web DID section of this specification.
§ 3.6.4 Deactivate (Revoke)

Deactivating a DID allows a DID Controller to signal that the DID is no longer being maintained
or updated. There is an explicit approach to deactivation that aligns with the [DID-CORE]
specification, and other approaches that a did:webvh DID Controller can use if the [DIDCORE] approach does not achieve their desired outcome. This section covers the various
methods for signaling that a DID is retired.
To deactivate a did:webvh DID per the DID-CORE specification, the DID Controller MUST add
to the DID log entry parameters the property name and value "deactivated": true . Once
done, a resolver MUST NOT return the DIDDoc and MUST include "deactivated": true in
the DID Resolution Metadata. A DID Controller deactivating a did:webvh DID MAY update
some parameters attributes to further indicate the deactivation of the DID, such as setting the
updateKeys array to [] , preventing further versions of the DID. If the DID is using prerotation, two DID log entries are required to accomplish that state: the first to stop the use of
pre-rotation, and the second to set updateKeys to []. For additional details about turning off
pre-rotation see the pre-rotation section of this specification.
A concern with using the [DID-CORE] approach to deactivation is the resolver requirement that
the DIDDoc not be returned for a deactivated DID. A DID Controller might want the final
DIDDoc to continue to be resolved, while also signaling that the DID is no longer being
updated. In the future, a DID Resolution query parameter
( returnDeactivatedDidDocument=true ) has been proposed to be added to the [[spec: DIDRESOLUTION]] specification to allow a client to request the DIDDoc of a deactivated DID.
However, even if that parameter is adopted, it places the burden on the resolver client to
decide whether and how to use it. An alternative that a did:webvh DID Controller could use
is to signal that a DID is no longer being updated by setting the updateKeys array to empty
( [] ), as discussed above, and not setting the deactivated parameter to true . The result
is that the final DIDDoc continues to be returned by default, and the DID Resolution Metadata
indicates that the DID can no longer be updated.
To resolve a prior version of a deactivated did:webvh DID, a client can use the appropriate
DID Resolution query parameters versionId , versionTime , or the did:webvh-specific
versionNumber (as described in the Read (Resolve) section of this specification). When such
a DID is resolved in this way, the DID Resolution Metadata MUST include the property name
and value "deactivated": true .
A DID Controller can “deactivate” a DID by removing the published DID Log and associated
files and resources. Once removed, attempts to retrieve the DID Log will result in an Not
Found error status when resolving the DID. Watchers monitoring a removed DID SHOULD
continue to cache the last known valid state of the DID indefinitely so that their clients can
still resolve and reference it, even after the DID Log has been deleted.

§ 3.7 DID Method Processes
The DID Method Operations reference several processes that are executed during DIDDoc
generation and DID resolution verification. Each of those processes is specified in the
following sections.
§ 3.7.1 did:webvh DID Method Parameters

All did:webvh Log entries contain the JSON object parameters . This object defines the DID
processing parameters used by the DID Controller when publishing the current and
subsequent DID log entries. DID Resolvers MUST use the same parameters to process the
DID Log to resolve the DID. The parameters object MUST only include properties defined in
the version of the did:webvh DID Method specification being used.
General Rules for Parameters:
Default Values: When the method parameter (see below) sets the [SEMVER] version of
this specification to be used for a DID, any parameter introduced by that version but not
explicitly set in the same log entry MUST assume the default value defined in this
section. The method parameter is required in the first log entry and may appear in later
entries to upgrade the DID to a newer [SEMVER] version of the did:webvh specification.
Allowed Values: Each parameter is constrained by the data type, structure and allowed
values specified in this section. If a value does not conform, the parameter is invalid and
resolvers MUST reject the log entry.
Deactivation: Parameters that support deactivation (such as witness or
nextKeyHashes ) are set to defined values, described below, to indicate they are no
longer active.
The JSON null value MUST NOT be used to indicate default or deactivated values, as it
removes the typing information required for proper interpretation.
NOTE
Some early did:webvh implementations used the JSON null value to indicate the
deactivation of parameters such as watchers , witness , updateKeys , nextKeyHashes ,
and ttl . Although this usage is deprecated and not valid per the current specification,
resolver implementations SHOULD gracefully accept null and immediately convert the
value to their equivalent default value for the parameter when processing DID Log
entries.

EXAMPLE
An example of the parameters property in the first DID Log entry:
{
"portable": true,
"updateKeys": [
"z82LkqR25TU88tztBEiFydNf4fUPn8oWBANckcmuqgonz9TAbK9a7WGQ5dm7jyqyRMpaRAe"
],
"nextKeyHashes": [
"enkkrohe5ccxyc7zghic6qux5inyzthg2tqka4b57kvtorysc3aa"
],
"method": "did:webvh:1.0",
"scid": "{SCID}"
}

The following lists the parameters, their data types, and enumerated values.
method : Specifies the did:webvh [SEMVER] specification version to be used for

processing the DID’s log. Each acceptable value in turn defines what cryptographic
algorithms are permitted for the current and subsequent DID log entries. An update to the
specification version in the middle of a DID Log could introduce new parameters.
MUST appear in the first DID log entry.
If not present in later DID log entries, the previous value continues to apply.
MAY appear in later entries to change the DID processing rules to that of a new
version of the specification.
MUST be set to a specification [SEMVER] version string equal to or higher than the
currently active method setting.
Acceptable values:
did:webvh:1.0

Permitted hash algorithms: SHA-256 [RFC6234]
Permitted Data Integrity cryptosuites: eddsa-jcs-2022 [DI-EDDSA-V1.0]
scid : The SCID value for the DID.

MUST appear in the first log entry.
MUST NOT appear in later log entries.
updateKeys : A JSON array of multikey formatted public keys associated with the private
keys that are authorized to sign the log entries that update the DID. See the Authorized
Keys section of this specification for additional details.
This property MUST appear in the first log entry and MAY appear in subsequent
entries.
If not present in later DID log entries, the previous value continues to apply.
A key from the active updateKeys array MUST be used to authorize the each log
entry, where active is defined as follows.
In the first log entry, the active updateKeys is the one defined in that entry.
In all other log entries without Key Pre-Rotation active, the active updateKeys is
that of the most recent prior log entry.
In all other log entries with Key Pre-Rotation active, the active updateKeys is that
of the most current log entry.
updateKeys SHOULD be set to an empty array [] when deactivating the DID. See the

deactivate section of this specification for more details.

nextKeyHashes : A JSON array of strings that are hashes of multikey formatted public

keys that MAY be added to the updateKeys list in the next log entry. At least one entry
of nextKeyHashes MUST be added to the next updateKeys list.
The process for generating the hashes and additional details for using pre-rotation are
defined in the Pre-Rotation Key Hash Generation and Verification section of this
Issues (10)
specification.
If not set in the first log entry, its value defaults to an empty array ( [] ).
If not set in other log entries, its value is retained from the most recent prior value.
Once the nextKeyHashes parameter has been set to a non-empty array, Key PreRotation is active. While active, the properties nextKeyHashes and updateKeys
MUST be present in all log entries.
While Key Pre-Rotation is active, all multikey formatted public keys added in a new
updateKeys list MUST have their hashes listed in the nextKeyHashes list from the
previous log entry.
A DID Controller MAY include extra hashes in the nextKeyHashes array that are not
subsequently used in an updateKeys entry. Any unused hashes in nextKeyHashes
arrays are ignored.
The value of nextKeyHashes MAY be set to an empty array ( [] ) to deactivate prerotation. For additional details about turning off pre-rotation, see the Pre-Rotation Key
Hash Generation and Verification section of this specification.
witness : A JSON object declaring the set of witnesses and threshold number of witness
proofs required to update the DID. For details of this data and its usage in the DID update
approval process, see the DID Witnesses section of this specification…
Defaults to {} if not set in the first log entry.
If not set in other log entries, its value is retained from the most recent prior value.
If the witness property is updated from {} , the change is immediately active, and
the corresponding log entry MUST be witnessed.
The witness parameter MAY be set to {} to indicate that witnesses are not (or no
longer) being used. If witnesses are active when the witness parameter is set to {} ,
that log entry MUST be witnessed.
watchers : An optional entry whose value is a JSON array containing a list of URLs
([RFC9110]) that have notified the DID Controller that they are willing to watch the DID.
See the Watchers section of this specification for more details.
Defaults to [] if not set in the first log entry.
If not set in other log entries, its value is retained from the most recent prior value.
MAY be set to an empty array [] to indicate that watchers are not (or no longer)
being used.
portable : Boolean (JSON true / false ) indicating if the DID is portable, allowing a
DID Controller to control if a DID can be moved, while retaining its SCID and verifiable
history. See the DID Portability section of this specification for more details.
Can ONLY be set to true in the first entry.
Defaults to false if omitted in the first entry.
Retains value if omitted in later entries.
Once set to false , MUST NOT be changed to true .
deactivated : A JSON boolean that indicates whether the DID has been deactivated. A

deactivated DID is no longer subject to updates but remains resolvable. See the
deactivate (revoke) section of this specification for more details.
Defaults to false if not set in the first DID log entry.

If set to true , the DID is considered deactivated and no further updates to the DID are
permitted.
ttl : An unsigned integer that indicates how long, in seconds, a resolver should cache

the resolved did:webvh DID before refreshing. It provides guidance from the DID
Controller on cache duration, with a range of 0 to 2[RFC2181]DIDDocDIDDocDIDDocDID
Log^31. The parameter is analogous to the TTL parameter used in DNS [RFC2181].
Caching a did:webvh can be valuable in places where the business rules require
resolving a number of DID URLs for the same DID. For example, a client might want call
the resolver to the current DIDDoc, and then make repeated calls to get all of the
previous versions of the DIDDoc. By caching the DIDDoc state, the resolver would not
have to retrieve and process the DID Log on each call.
Defaults to 3600 (1 hour) if not set in the first DID log entry.
If set to 0 , indicates that the DID should not be cached.
§ 3.7.2 Cryptographic Agility

The did:webvh DID method is designed to support cryptographic agility—the ability to adapt
to evolving cryptographic algorithms and suites over time without breaking compatibility or
requiring global coordination.
Cryptographic agility in did:webvh is achieved through the following mechanisms:
Self-describing cryptographic formats: All cryptographically generated data (e.g., hashes
and signatures) use formats that encode the algorithm used. Hashes use the Multihash
format, and signatures use the Data Integrity Proofs. These formats allow verifiers to
determine the algorithm from the data itself, enabling flexible and extensible support.
Specification versioning via the method parameter: Each DID Log Entry may include a
method parameter that specifies the version of the did:webvh specification being used
for the current and subsequent log entries. This parameter is required in the initial log
entry and may be updated in later entries to adopt newer versions of the specification.
This allows long-lived DIDs to transition to updated algorithm sets over time.
Version-specific algorithm policies: Each version of the did:webvh specification defines
the permitted cryptographic algorithms and suites for that version. This constrains what
algorithms DID Controllers may use and limits the verification requirements placed on
resolvers. For example, the v1.0 specification permits only one hash algorithm and one
Data Integrity cryptosuite, while future versions may change or expand this set.
Response to cryptographic vulnerabilities: If flaws are identified in a cryptographic
algorithm permitted by a given version of the specification, a new version of the
did:webvh specification will be released that removes or replaces the compromised
algorithms. DID Controllers may then rotate to the newer version by updating the method
parameter in a new log entry.
This design allows did:webvh to remain interoperable and verifiable across cryptographic
eras while minimizing the burden on resolvers and preserving backward compatibility where
safe to do so.
§ 3.7.3 SCID Generation and Verification

The self-certifying identifier or SCID is a required parameter in the first DID log entry and is
the hash of the DID’s inception event.
§ Generate SCID

To generate the SCID for a did:webvh DID, the DID Controller MUST execute the following
function:
base58btc(multihash(JCS(preliminary log entry with placeholders), <hash
algorithm>))

Where:
1. The preliminary [[ref: log entry]] with placeholders consists of the following
pre-publication JSON object of what will become the first log entry. The placeholder is
the literal string “ {SCID} ”.
The versionId entry, which MUST be {SCID} .
The versionTime entry, which MUST be a string that is the current time in UTC
ISO8601 format, e.g., "2024-04-05T07:32:58Z"
The complete parameters for the initial log entry as defined by the DID Controller,
with the placeholder wherever the SCID will eventually be placed.
The state JSON object with the value being the initial DIDDoc with placeholders (the
literal string “ {SCID} ”) wherever the SCID will eventually be placed in the DIDDoc.
2. JCS is an implementation of the JSON Canonicalization Scheme [RFC8785]. It outputs a
canonicalized representation of its JSON input.
3. multihash is an implementation of the multihash specification. Its output is a hash of
the input using the associated <hash algorithm> , prefixed with a hash algorithm
identifier and the hash size.
4. <hash algorithm> is the hash algorithm used by the DID Controller. The hash algorithm
MUST be one listed in the parameters defined by the version of the did:webvh
specification being used by the DID Controller.
5. base58btc is an implementation of the base58btc function. Its output is the base58
encoded string of its input.
§ Verify SCID

To verify the SCID of a did:webvh DID being resolved, the resolver MUST execute the
following process:
1. Extract the first DID log entry and use it for the rest of the steps in this process.
2. Extract the scid property value from the parameters in the DID log entry.
3. Determine the hash algorithm used by the DID Controller from the multihash scid value.
The hash algorithm MUST be one listed in the parameters defined by the version of
the did:webvh specification being used by the DID Controller based on the method
parameters property.
4. Remove the data integrity proof property from the DID log entry.
5. Replace the versionId property value with the literal "{SCID}" .
6. Treat the resulting log entry as a string and do a text replacement of the scid value
from Step 2 with the literal string {SCID} .
7. Use the result and the hash algorithm (from Step 3) as input to the function defined in
the Generate SCID section (above).
8. The output string MUST match the scid extracted in Step 2. If not, terminate the
resolution process with an error.
§ 3.7.4 Entry Hash Generation and Verification

The entryHash follows the version number and dash character - in the versionId
property in each DID log entry. Each entryHash is calculated across its log entry, excluding
the Data Integrity proof. The versionId used in the input to the hash is a predecessor value
to the current log entry, ensuring that the entries are cryptographically “chained” together in a
microledger. For the first log entry, the predecessor versionId is the SCID (itself a hash),
while for all other entries it is the versionId property from the previous log entry.
§ Generate Entry Hash

To generate the required hash for a did:webvh log entry, the DID Controller MUST execute
the process base58btc(multihash(JCS(entry), <hash algorithm>)) given a preliminary
log entry as the string entry , where:
1. JCS is an implementation of the JSON Canonicalization Scheme ([RFC8785]). Its output
is a canonicalized representation of its input.
2. multihash is an implementation of the multihash specification. Its output is a hash of
the input using the associated <hash algorithm> , prefixed with a hash algorithm
identifier and the hash size.
3. <hash algorithm> is the hash algorithm used by the DID Controller. The hash algorithm
MUST be one listed in the parameters defined by the version of the did:webvh
specification being used by the DID Controller.
4. base58btc is an implementation of the base58btc function. Its output is the base58
encoded string of its input.
The following is an example of a preliminary log entry that is processed to produce an entry
hash. As this is a first entry in a DID Log, the input versionId is the SCID of the DID.
{"versionId": "QmdmPkUdYzbr9txmx8gM2rsHPgr5L6m3gHjJGAf4vUFoGE", "versionTime": "2025-0

Resulting entryHash: QmQ6FJ4fk2xheSSQoEjVpTgx9AQPKhJgtR9hn1nr4EeCrZ
§ Verify The Entry Hash

To verify the entryHash for a given did:webvh DID log entry, a DID Resolver MUST execute
the following process:
1. Extract the versionId in the DID log entry, and remove from it the version number and
dash prefix, leaving the log entry entryHash value.
2. Determine the hash algorithm used by the DID Controller from the multihash entryHash
value.
The hash algorithm MUST be one listed in the parameters defined by the version of
the did:webvh specification being used by the DID Controller based on the method
parameters property set in the current or most recent prior log entry.
3. Remove the Data Integrity proof from the log entry.
4. Set the versionId in the entry object to be the versionId from the previous log entry.
If this is the first entry in the log, set the value to <scid> , the value of the SCID of the
DID.
5. Calculate the hash string as base58btc(multihash(JCS(entry), <hash algorithm>)) ,
where:
1. entry is the data from the previous step.
2. JCS is an implementation of the JSON Canonicalization Scheme ([RFC8785]). Its
output is a canonicalized representation of its input.
3. multihash is an implementation of the multihash specification. Its output is a hash
of the input using the associated <hash algorithm> , prefixed with a hash algorithm
identifier and the hash size.
4. <hash algorithm> is the hash algorithm from Step 2.
5. base58btc is an implementation of the base58btc function. Its output is the base58
encoded string of its input.
6. Verify that the calculated value matches the extracted entryHash value from Step 1. If
not, terminate the resolution process with an error.
§ 3.7.5 Authorized Keys

Each entry in the DID Log MUST include a Data Integrity proof property signed by a key
authorized to control (create, update, deactivate) the DID, and with the proofPurpose set to
assertionMethod . The authorized verification keys for did:webvh are the multikey-
formatted public keys in the active updateKeys list from the parameters property of the log
entries. Any of the authorized verification keys may be referenced in the Data Integrity proof.
For the first log entry the active updateKeys list is the one in that first log entry.
A resolver of the DID MUST verify the signature and the key used for signing each DID Log
entry MUST be one from the list of active updateKeys . If not, terminate the resolution
process with an error.
The did:webvh Implementation Guide contains further discussion on the management of
keys authorized to update the DID.
The active updateKeys for subsequent entries depends if the Pre-Rotation is active or not.
§ No Key Prerotation

For all subsequent entries, the active list is the most recent updateKeys before the log entry
to be verified. Thus, the general case is that each log entry is signed by the keys from the
previous log entry. Once a log entry containing an updateKeys list is published, that
updateKeys becomes the active list, and previous updateKeys are ignored.
§ Pre-rotation

For all subsequent entries, the active list is the updateKeys from the current log entry to be
verified. Thus, the general case is that each log entry is signed by the keys from the current
log entry.
§ 3.7.6 DID Portability

As noted in the Update (rotate) section of the specification, a did:webvh DID can be
renamed by changing the id DID string in the DIDDoc to one that resolves to a different
HTTPS URL if the following conditions are met.
The DID Log of the renamed DID MUST contain all of the log entries from the creation of
the DID.
The log entry in which the DID is renamed MUST be a valid DID entry building on the prior
DID log entries, per this specification.
The parameter portable MUST be set to true , as defined in the DID Method
Parameters section.
The SCID MUST be the same in the original and renamed DID.
The DIDDoc MUST contain the prior DID string as an alsoKnownAs entry.
DID Controllers SHOULD account for any DNS requirements in making domain changes
that impact a did:webvh DID being moved, such as those outlined in [[spec:1034]]
(“Domain Names - Concepts and Facilities”), and [RFC1035] (“Domain Names
Implementation and Specification”).
Security Note — Misleading Prior Domain Association
When using portability, a did:webvh identifier may include a domain component that was
never actually used to host its DID Log before being “moved” to a domain under the DID
Controller’s control. This creates a potential for misleading claims of association with the
original domain. Resolvers and clients of resolvers MUST ignore any prior domain
components when evaluating the history or trustworthiness of a did:webvh DID; only the
current hosting location and its associated verifiable history are relevant. In addition, the
whois DID URL capability can be used to obtain attestations about the DID and DID Controller
from relevant authorities.
§ 3.7.7 Pre-Rotation Key Hash Generation and Verification

Pre-rotation requires a DID Controller to commit to the authorization keys that will be used
(“rotated to”) in the next log entry for updating the DIDDoc. The purpose of committing to
future keys is that if the currently authorized keys are compromised by an attacker, the
attacker should not be able to take control of the DID by using the compromised keys to
rotate to new keys the attacker controls. Assuming the attacker has not also compromised
the committed key pairs, they cannot rotate the authorization keys without detection. See the
non-normative section about Pre-Rotation[Using Pre-Rotation Keys](#using-pre-rotation-keys)
in the did:webvh Implementer’s Guide for additional guidance.
As described in the parameters section of this specification, a DID Controller MAY include the
parameter nextKeyHashes with a non-empty list in any DID log entry to activate the prerotation feature. When pre-rotation is active, all multikey representations of the public keys in
the updateKeys parameters property in other than the initial version of the DID log MUST
have their hash in the nextKeyHashes array from the previous DID log entry. If not, terminate
the resolution process with an error.
A DID Controller may turn off the use of pre-rotation by setting the parameter nextKeyHashes
to [] (empty array) in any DID log entry. If there is an active set of nextKeyHashes at the
time, the pre-rotation requirements remains in effect for the DID Log entry. The subsequent
DID Log entry MUST use the non-pre-rotation rules.
To create a hash to be included in the nextKeyHashes array, the DID MUST execute the
following process for each possible future authorization key.
1. Generate a new key pair. The key type MUST be one that can be used as a did:webvh
authorization key.
2. Generate a multikey representation of the public key of the new key pair.
3. Calculate the hash string as base58btc(multihash(multikey)) , where:
1. multikey is the multikey representation of the public key from Step 2.
2. multihash is an implementation of the multihash specification. Its output is a hash
of the input using the associated <hash algorithm> , prefixed with a hash algorithm
identifier and the hash size.
3. <hash algorithm> is the hash algorithm used by the DID Controller. The hash
algorithm MUST be one listed in the parameters defined by the version of the
did:webvh specification being used by the DID Controller.
4. base58btc is an implementation of the base58btc function. Its output is the base58
encoded string of its input.
4. Insert the calculated hash into the nextKeyHashes array being built up within the
parameters property.
5. The generated key pair SHOULD be safely stored so that it can be used in the next log
entry to become a DID authorization key. At that time, the multikey representation of the
public key will be inserted into the updateKeys property in the parameters and the
private key can be used to sign the log entry's DID update authorizations proofs.
A DID Controller MAY add include extra entries (for keys or just random strings) in a
nextKeyHashes array.
After rotating from a pre‑rotation public key, the corresponding private key SHOULD be treated
as spent and securely destroyed. Reusing a revealed pre‑rotation key is strongly discouraged
because it weakens the intended containment and forward‑security properties of pre‑rotation.
When processing other than the first DID log entry where pre-rotation feature is active, a
did:webvh resolver MUST:
1. For each multikey in the updateKeys property in the parameters of the log entry,
calculate the hash and hash algorithm for the multihash multikey.
2. The hash algorithm MUST be one listed in the parameters defined by the version of the
did:webvh specification being used by the DID Controller.
3. The resultant hash MUST be in the nextKeyHashes array from the previous log entry
prior to being processed. If not, terminate the resolution process with an error.
4. A new nextKeyHashes list MUST be in the parameters of the log entry currently being
processed. If not, terminate the resolution process with an error.
§ 3.7.8 DID Witnesses

The witness process for a did:webvh DID provides a way for collaborators to work with the
DID Controller to “witness” the publication of new versions of the DID. This specification
defines the technical mechanism for using witnesses. Governance and policy questions about
when and how to use the technical mechanism are outside the scope of this specification.
Witnesses can prevent a DID Controller from updating/removing versions of a DID without
detection by the witnesses. Witnesses are also a further mitigation against malicious actors
compromising both a DID Controller's authorization key(s) to update the DID, and the DID's
web site where the DID log is published. With both compromises, a malicious actor might be
able to take control over the DID by rewriting the DID Log using the keys they have
compromised. By adding witnesses to monitor and approve each version update, a malicious
actor cannot rewrite the previous history without having compromised a sufficient number of
witnesses, the DID Controller's key(s), and the Web Server on which the DID Log is published.
§ Witness Lists

The list of DIDs that witness DID updates are defined in the witness parameter, as described
in the Parameters section of this specification. After the first witness parameter has been
set to other than {} (empty object) in a DID log entry, and while there are active witnesses, a
threshold of the active witnesses must provide valid proofs associated with each DID log
entry before the DID can be published. If a DID log entry contains a new (replacement) list of
witnesses (by including a new witness parameter) that new list becomes active AFTER the
new DID log has been published. Such a replacement MAY be a {} (empty object). Once the
witness attribute set to {} becomes active, updates to the DID are not witnessed.
§ Witness DIDs and Reputation

Since did:webvh witness DIDs must be did:key DIDs, there is not an explicitly published
identifier for each witness. If there is a need in an ecosystem to identify who the witnesses
are, a mechanism should be defined by the governance of the ecosystem, such as the entry
of the DID in a trust registry. Such mechanisms are outside the scope of this specification.
§ The witness Parameter

The witness element in a parameters object of a DID Log entry has the following data
structure:
"witness" : {
"threshold": n,
"witnesses" : [
{
"id": "<did:key DID of witness>"
}
]
}

where:
threshold: an integer that must be attained or surpassed by the count of the witnesses
for a DID log entry to be considered approved. threshold MUST be between 1 and the
number of items in the witnesses array, inclusive.
witnesses : the array of [[ref; witnesses]] that MUST be non-empty, with each entry

including the field:
id : (required) the DID of the witness. The DID MUST be a did:key DID, and MUST be
unique within the array (i.e., no duplicate witness DIDs).
§ Witness Threshold Algorithm

The use of the threshold versus needing approvals from all witnesses is to prevent faulty
witnesses from blocking the publishing of a new version of the DID. To determine if the
threshold has been met, all participants MUST count the verified witness approvals, and if it is
equal to or more than the threshold , the update MUST be accepted as “witnessed”.
§ The Witness Proofs File

Proofs from witnesses are placed into a separate file ( did-witness.json ) from the DID Log.
The same DID to HTTPS Transformation used for the DID Log is used to locate the didwitness.json resource, with only the last element changed ( did.jsonl to didwitness.json ). The media type of the file SHOULD be application/json .
The data model for the did-witness.json file is:
[
{
"versionId": "1-Qmba111111...",
"proof": [{ ... }, { ... }]
},
{
"versionId": "2-Qzmb222222...",
"proof": [{ ... }, { ... }]
}
]

Where:
versionId is the versionId of the DID log entry to which the witness proofs apply.
proof is an array of Data Integrity proofs that use the versionId as input data. The

permitted Data Integrity cryptosuites used by the witnesses MUST be eddsa-jcs-2022
as referenced in [spec:di-eddsa-v1.0] and the proofPurpose set to assertionMethod .
A valid proof from a witness carries the implication that ALL prior DID Log entries are also
approved by that witness. To maintain a manageable did-witness.json file size, the DID
Controller SHOULD remove all older proofs for published DID Log entries, keeping only the
latest proof for each witness.
To eliminate the race condition in publishing the DID Log and did-witness.json files, when
a new DID Log entry is being added, witness proofs MUST be added to the didwitness.json file and that file published BEFORE publishing the DID Log file containing the
new DID Log entry. As a result, did:webvh resolvers may find proofs for unpublished DID log
entries in the did-witness.json file. Resolvers MUST ignore proofs with versionId s not in
the DID Log file. Since resolvers cannot verify an unpublished DID log entry, the witness
proofs on unpublished DID log entries do not carry the implication of approval of prior DID
Log entries. Therefore, at times there may be two proofs in the did-witness.json file for a
witness:
The most recent proof for a published DID Log entry.
An additional proof that applies to an unpublished DID Log entry.
To avoid unnecessary clutter in the did-witness.json file, array entries without proofs (e.g.,
containing only the versionId ) SHOULD be removed.
§ Witnessing a DID Version Update

The following process is used to witness a DID version update:
The DID Controller prepares the full DID Log Entry (including the proof element) for the
new version of the DID, and shares it with the active witnesses.
The specification leaves to implementers how the log entry data is provided to the
witnesses.
The witnesses *MUST hold their own copy of the published DID Log prior to witnessing a
DID Log entry.
Each witness verifies the DID Log Entry, as defined by this specification. If not verified,
the witnesses MUST NOT approve the log entry.
Each witness determines (based on the governance of the ecosystem) if they approve of
the DID version update.
The meaning of “approve” for any given implementation is outside the scope of this
specification.
If the verification is successful and approval granted, the witness creates and sends to
the DID Controller a Data Integrity proof signed using the witness's did:key DID.
The specification leaves to implementers how witness proofs are conveyed to the DID
Controller.
The DID Controller MUST add the proof to the record for the applicable versionId for
the unpublished DID log entry. to the did-witness.json file.
The DID Controller MAY publish the updated did-witness.json file as new witness
proofs are added to the file.
The DID Controller MUST publish the updated did-witness.json file after a threshold
of witness proofs have been received and before the witnessed DID Log file is
published.
§ Verifying Witness Proofs During Resolution

A did:webvh resolver MUST verify that all DID Log entries that have active witnesses have a
threshold of active witnesses approving the log entry. To do so, resolvers must:
Successfully complete the non-witness verifications of the DID Log.
Retrieve the did-witness.json file.
Verify enough of the witness proofs in the did-witness.json file to meet the threshold
for all DID log entries requiring witnessing.
The resolver MUST ignore the proofs of any unpublished DID Log entries.
For each DID log entry requiring witnessing, the resolver MUST confirm that the didwitness.json file contains verified witness Data Integrity proofs from a threshold of the
then active witnesses for the current or any later published log entries. If not, terminate
the resolution process with an error.
A DID Controller is expected to prune the did-witness.json file to include only the last
proof for each witness for a published DID log entry. However, if a DID Controller does not
prune the file, a resolver MAY do the pruning as part of the resolution process, verifying only
the minimum number of proofs needed to meet the threshold for each DID log entry. While it
is expected that a DID Controller will exclude any proofs that fail verification, a resolver MAY
ignore any proofs that fail verification and still resolve the DID if there are enough valid proofs
to meet the threshold requirements.
If you want to learn more about the practical application of witnesses, see the Implementer’s
Guide section on Witnesses on the did:webvh information site for more discussion on the
witness capability and using it in production scenarios.
§ 3.7.9 DID Watchers

Watchers are components found in some digital trust and DID ecosystems that monitor DIDs
on behalf of clients for various purposes, such as:
Caching verified DIDs: Storing verified DID documents to facilitate efficient resolution.
Ensuring persistence: Maintaining access to DIDs even after removal by the DID
Controller. For example, the  Verifiable Data Gateway in  did :webplus could
function as a watcher for enduring DIDs.
Detecting inconsistencies: Identifying malicious behavior by the DID Controller, such as
republishing altered DID Logs. A network of watchers can reach consensus independently
of witnesses.
Any party may set up a watcher for did:webvh DIDs. However, a did:webvh DID Controller
may opt to collaborate with specific watchers by publishing their URIs in the parameters of
DID log entries. It is outside the scope of this specification how a DID controller requests a
watcher monitor a DID or how a watcher requests it be included in the DID Log of a DID.
The governance of watchers is out of scope for this specification, which defines only the
technical mechanisms for notifying and querying watcher services.
§ Publishing Watcher URLs

did:webvh provides a mechanisms for notifying resolvers (and their clients via [[spec:DIDRESOLUTION]] metadata) about configured watchers. The watchers parameter lists URIs that
identify the DID’s watchers.
Watchers can be used by did:webvh resolvers and resolver clients. When resolving a
did:webvh DID, did:webvh resolvers MUST provide the active list of watchers in the DID
metadata, as noted in the read/resolve section of this specification.
Watcher URIs MAY use schemes other than HTTP(S), such as a DID ([DID-CORE]), depending
on the specific implementation or network requirements. However, this specification does not
define how non-HTTP(S) watcher URIs should be resolved or interacted with. If a watcher
uses an HTTP(S) URL, it MUST support the HTTP-based interaction model defined in the
Watcher Endpoints and Behavior section.
If a watchers entry is included in a DID log entry, it replaces the active set of watchers.
If a new watcher is added after a DID has existed for some time, the DID Controller SHOULD
notify the new watcher about previously created DID Resources.
Watchers do not need to be listed in the DID log. Watchers can operate independently of the
DID Controller by polling for updates. DID Controllers MAY send notifications to watchers that
the DID Controller is aware of but does not list in the DID Log.
§ Watcher Endpoints and Behavior

A watcher is a web server accessible via HTTP that MUST support the following capabilities:
Client Requests:
Retrieve the DID log file for a given SCID.
Retrieve the witness file for a given SCID.
Retrieve a resource for a given SCID and resource path.
Notifications (typically) from the DID Controller:
Notify the watcher about a new log entry for a DID.
Notify the watcher about a new or updated DID resource.
Request removal of a given SCID from the watcher's cache.
Request removal of a given DID resource SCID from the watcher's cache.
§ Watcher HTTP API Operations

The following HTTP API operations define the interaction between watchers and other
components. Included with the specification is the did:webvh v1.0 Watcher OpenAPI YML
Definition that includes the request and response data models and status codes for each of
the endpoints.
GET <WATCHER URL>/log?scid=<SCID> : Returns the latest DID Log for the given SCID.
POST <WATCHER URL>/log?did=<DID> : Notifies the watcher of a log update, prompting
retrieval of the latest DID Log and witness file. This endpoint uses the did as the query
parameter instead of the SCID to ensure that the watcher is notified in the case of the
DID moving to a new web location. The watcher is expected to continue indexing the DID
using its SCID.
POST <WATCHER URL>/log/delete?scid=<SCID> : Notifies the watcher that the given
<SCID> should be deleted from the watcher's cache. If removed, subsequent requests
for that <SCID> from clients should return a 404 Not Found status. The body of the
URL is a Data Integrity proof from the requester that may be used by the Watcher to
decide on the legitimacy of the request. The Watcher will act (or not) on the request
according to its governance, which is out of scope of this specification. For example, a
watcher might implement a workflow be completed to approve the deletion of a <SCID>
from the watcher's cache. The endpoint could be used to carry out a “right to be
forgotten” order, such as might be required under Europe’s General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR).
GET <WATCHER URL>/witness?scid=<SCID> : Returns the latest witness.json file for
the given SCID.
GET <WATCHER URL>/resource?scid=<SCID>&path=<resourcePath> : Retrieves the
requested resource.
POST <WATCHER URL>/resource?scid=<SCID>&path=<resourcePath> : Notifies the
watcher of a new or updated resource.
POST <WATCHER URL>/resource/delete?scid=<SCID>&path=<resourcePath> : Notifies
the watcher that the given <resourcePath> associated with the <SCID> should be
deleted from the watcher's cache. If removed, subsequent requests for that <SCID> and
<resourcePath> from clients should return a 404 Not Found status. The body of the
URL is a Data Integrity proof from the requester that may be used by the Watcher to
decide on the legitimacy of the request. The Watcher will act (or not) on the request
according to its governance, which is out of scope of this specification. For example, a
watcher might implement a workflow be completed to approve the deletion of a <SCID>
from the watcher's cache. The endpoint could be used to carry out a “right to be
forgotten” order, such as might be required under Europe’s General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR).
§ 3.7.10 Publishing a Parallel did:web DID

Each time a did:webvh version is created, the DID Controller MAY generate a corresponding
did:web to publish along with the did:webvh . If this is being done, the did:webvh DIDDoc
SHOULD have the corresponding did:web in the alsoKnownAs array. To publish a parallel
did:web DIDDoc, the DID Controller MUST:
1. Start with the resolved version of the DIDDoc from did:webvh .
2. If the “implicit” did:webvh services (as defined in the DID URL Resolution section) are
not already present in the DIDDoc, they MUST be added. These services are the
relativeRef service with id: "#files" or id: "<did>#files" and the whois
service with id: "#whois" or id: "<did>#whois" , with the serviceEndpoint for both
derived from the DID-to-HTTPS transformation.
3. Execute a text replacement across the DIDDoc of did:webvh:<SCID>: to did:web: ,
where <scid> is the actual did:webvh SCID.
4. Add to the DIDDoc alsoKnownAs array, the full did:webvh DID. If the alsoKnownAs
array does not exist in the DIDDoc, it MUST be added.
5. Remove any duplicate entries in the alsoKnownAs array, including the did:web DID
itself if it was duplicated in the earlier steps.
6. Publish the resulting DIDDoc as the file did.json at the web location determined by the
specified did:web DID-to-HTTPS transformation.
The benefit of doing this is that resolvers that have not been updated to support did:webvh
can continue to resolve the DID Controller's DIDs. did:web resolvers that are aware of
did:webvh features can use that knowledge, and the existence of the alsoKnownAs
did:webvh data in the DIDDoc to get the verifiable history of the DID.
The risk of publishing the did:web in parallel with the did:webvh is that the added security
and convenience of using did:webvh are lost.

§ 3.8 DID URL Resolution
The did:webvh DID method embraces the expressive power of DID URLs while preserving
the semantic simplicity of a web-based resolution model. In particular, did:webvh
implementations MUST support path-based DID URL resolution in a manner consistent with
the DID Core specification.
Specifically, a did:webvh resolver MUST:
Resolve any did:webvh DID URL with a path component using an implicit relativeRef
service as defined in [DID-CORE]. The path is appended directly to the HTTPS URL
obtained from the DID-to-HTTPS transformation, excluding any .well-known prefix.
For example, resolving did:webvh:{SCID}:example.com/governance/issuers.json
retrieves the file located at https://example.com/governance/issuers.json .
This behavior can be overridden by defining an explicit service in the DID Document.
Resolve the special path /whois using an implicit [[spec:LINKED-VP]] service. This
applies regardless of whether a whois service is explicitly defined in the DIDDoc. The
resolver MUST retrieve the Verifiable Presentation, if published by the DID Controller, from
the web location corresponding to the DID-to-HTTPS transformation (excluding .wellknown ), using the path /whois.vp and media type application/vp as registered in the
IANA Media Types Registry.
For example, resolving did:webvh:{SCID}:example.com/whois returns the content of
https://example.com/whois.vp if available.
In both cases, a DID Controller MAY override the implicit resolution behavior by defining
explicit services in the DID Document, which take precedence over the defaults.
The sections below formalize the structure and resolution rules for each default service and
describe how they may be overridden by the DID Controller.

§ 3.9 DID URL Path Resolution
The automatic resolution of did:webvh DID URL paths follows the [DID-CORE] relativeRef
mechanism, enabling path-based access to web resources directly tied to the DID’s domain.
The approach is derived from Examples 2 and 8 in Section 3.2 of DID Core:
A DID URL such as did:example:123456/resume.pdf (see Example 2)
is semantically equivalent to:
did:example:123456?service=files&relativeRef=/resume.pdf (see Example 8).
The service=files reference resolves against a DID Document service with "id":
"#files" or "id": "<did>#files" and a type of relativeRef .
The did:webvh method implicitly defines this service, with a serviceEndpoint derived from
the DID-to-HTTPS transformation. The final path segment ( did.jsonl ) is replaced by the DID
URL path. If the resulting HTTPS URL contains .well-known/ , that segment MUST be
removed before dereferencing the resource.
For example, the following is the implicit service definition for the DID did:
<scid>:webvh:example.com :
{
"id": "#files",
"type": "relativeRef",
"serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/"
}

A DID Controller MAY explicitly define a service entry with "id": "#files" in the DIDDoc. If
present, this MUST override the implicit service described above. id can be be an absolute
reference that includes the DID with the #files fragment ( <did>#files ), or a relative
reference as above.
To resolve a DID URL of the form <did:webvh DID>/path/to/file , a did:webvh resolver
MUST:
1. Resolve the base did:webvh DID by retrieving, verifying, and processing its DID Log, as
defined in this specification.
2. Locate the service entry with id "#files" or "<did>#files" in the resulting DIDDoc,
or fall back to the implicit service if none is defined.
3. Construct the URL by appending the DID URL path to the serviceEndpoint, and attempt to
retrieve the resource from that location.
If the scheme of the serviceEndpoint is not supported by the resolver (e.g., nonHTTP(S) protocol), the resolver MUST return an invalidDid error.
If the resolution of the constructed URL fails with a “not found” condition (e.g., HTTP
404), the resolver MUST return the notFound error.
§ 3.9.1 whois LinkedVP Service

§ 3.10 WHOIS Resolution
The #whois service enables recipients of a did:webvh DID to retrieve a Verifiable
Presentation—optionally published by the DID—containing one or more embedded Verifiable
Credentials. These credentials may help resolvers or relying parties make informed trust
decisions about the controller of the DID.
The intention is that resolving <did:webvh DID>/whois yields a Verifiable Presentation
published by the DID Controller that includes credentials with the DID as the
credentialSubject . The contents of the presentation are determined solely by the DID
Controller, who selects which credentials to include. It is up to the resolver or relying party to
decide what assertions (and issuers) are relevant for establishing trust.
did:webvh DIDs automatically support a /whois service endpoint, implicitly defined using

the [[spec:LINKED-VP]] service type. The serviceEndpoint is computed using the standard
DID-to-HTTPS transformation, replacing did.jsonl with whois.vp , and omitting any .wellknown/ prefix.
The default #whois service is:
{
"@context": "https://identity.foundation/linked-vp/contexts/v1",
"id": "#whois",
"type": "LinkedVerifiablePresentation",
"serviceEndpoint": "<did-to-https-translation>/whois.vp"
}

The file located at the serviceEndpoint MUST contain a Verifiable conforming to the W3C
VCDM. It MUST be signed by the DID. id can be be an absolute reference that includes the
DID with the #whois fragment ( <did>#whois ), or a relative reference as above.
The presentation MUST include at least one Verifiable Credential where the
credentialSubject.id is the DID. Such Verifiable might serve to bind the DID to other
identifiers associated with the DID Controller. Additional credentials in the presentation MAY
be associated with those other identifiers, rather than the DID itself. For example, the
presentation could include a credential linking the DID for a business to that business’s
registration ID, and a second credential (perhaps an ISO certification) where the
credentialSubject.id is the registration ID.
A DID Controller MAY explicitly define a service with "id": "#whois" in the DIDDoc. If
present, this entry MUST override the implicit service defined above. This is required if the
controller wishes to:
Publish the WHOIS Verifiable Presentation in a different format (i.e., not W3C VCDM)
Serve the WHOIS presentation from a different location or using a non-default media type
To resolve the DID URL <did:webvh DID>/whois , a resolver MUST:
1. Resolve the base did:webvh DID by retrieving, verifying, and processing the DID Log.
The resolver will use either an explicitly defined service with "id": "#whois" or "id":
"<did>#whois" , or the implicit service defined above.
2. Construct and attempt to retrieve the resource from the serviceEndpoint URL.
If the scheme of the serviceEndpoint is unsupported by the resolver (e.g., nonHTTP(S)), the resolver MUST return the invalidDid error.
If the request to the service endpoint results in a “not found” condition (e.g., HTTP
404), the resolver MUST return the notFound error.
The returned whois.vp MUST contain a W3C VCDM verifiable signed by the DID and
containing verifiable credentials that MUST have the DID as the credentialSubject .
If a DID Controller publishes a parallel did:web DID and a whois.vp file, the /whois
endpoint can be resolved using either DID, returning the same content either way. The
verifiable presentation proof can reference either DID or include two proofs, each referencing
a verification method for one of the DIDs. If only one DID is referenced, since both DIDs will
have an alsoKnownAs for one another and include the same verification methods, a resolver
using the DID not referenced in the proof can choose to verify the proof with the already
resolved DID, or resolve the referenced DID before verifying the proof.
A DID Controller MAY explicitly add to their DIDDoc a did:webvh service with the "id":
"#whois" or "id": "<did>#whois" . Such an entry MUST override the implicit service
above. If the DID wants to publish the whois verifiable presentation in a different format than
the W3C VCDM format, they MUST explicitly add to their DIDDoc a service with the "id":
"#whois" or "id": "<did>#whois" to specify the name and implied format of the verifiable.

§ 4. Security Considerations
This section follows the guidelines in [RFC3552] and addresses the security requirements for
all DID operations defined in the did:webvh method specification. It draws on the methodspecific characteristics of did:webvh while aligning with the [DID-CORE] requirements in DID
Core 7.3.

§ 4.1 Threats and Attacks
Implementations of did:webvh MUST mitigate the following classes of attack for all DID
operations:
Eavesdropping — All network communication (e.g., retrieval of did.jsonl ,
witness.json files, or other DID-associated resources) SHOULD be performed over TLS
(HTTPS). Plaintext HTTP MUST NOT be used except for testing or non-production
deployments where confidentiality is not required. This requirement is not unique to the
did:webvh method; its application here is as with general web traffic. The verifiability of
did:webvh ensures that tampering with the contents of individual log entries is
detectable, TLS protects against passive observation and other network-based risks.
Replay attacks — Implementations MUST verify the DID Log (including monotonic
progression and referenced hashes) and reject logs that do not verify as outlined in the
Read section of this specification.
Message insertion, deletion, and modification — Each DID Log entry and witness file is
integrity-protected using cryptographic signatures. Implementations MUST verify the DID
Log and reject any log that fails verification as outlined in the Read section of this
specification.
Truncation or withholding of log entries — An attacker (or misconfigured intermediary)
could serve an older-but-valid prefix of the DID Log, truncating newer entries and
presenting a stale DID state.
Mitigations (non-exhaustive):
Resolver cache-and-compare: Resolvers SHOULD remember the latest versionId
previously observed for a DID and SHOULD warn or fail resolution when presented
with a truncated log.
Witness verification: Where DID Controllers utilize witnesses, resolvers MUST verify
that all entries are properly witnessed according to the Witness Verification section
of this specification. Notably, witness proofs of unpublished or truncated entries
MUST be ignored.
Multi-source resolution: Resolvers MAY attempt retrieval from multiple did:webvh
Watchers and detect divergence in latest entries.
End-to-end TLS: While signatures detect per-entry tampering, use of TLS SHOULD be
enforced to reduce opportunities for active truncation in transit.
Denial of Service (DoS) and amplification — Implementations MAY limit resource
consumption by rejecting excessively large DID logs and witness proof files, and
throttling repeated resolution attempts. The subjective elements of these limits (e.g.,
what constitutes “excessively large” or “repeated”) are ecosystem-dependent and
SHOULD be established through community or ecosystem governance.
Man-in-the-middle (MitM) — HTTPS and signature verification of DID Log entries and
witness proofs protect against undetected modification of individual entries. Risks
specific to withholding or truncation are addressed in Truncation or withholding of log
entries above. Use of TLS further ensures server authenticity and reduces opportunities
for active interference.
Conflicting parallel updates / split view — Multiple authorized updates from the same
parent entry can produce divergent logs. Publication components MUST enforce
monotonic extension of the current tip; witnesses MUST NOT sign more than one child of
the same parent; consolidation of witness.json MUST fail on conflicting branches.
Resolvers SHOULD cache the highest observed version/hash and SHOULD detect/warn
on older branches; Watchers SHOULD detect and report divergence across sources.
Other attacks — The required did:webvh verification process mitigates downgrade
attacks on cryptographic algorithms and prevents poisoning of log or witness files, since
unauthorized changes fail signature verification. Verification does not, however, address
availability risks; implementers SHOULD consider operational measures (e.g., watchers
and well-known web techniques) to improve resilience.
Misleading prior-domain association — A DID may be ported from a domain it never
actually used, creating a false impression of association with that domain. Mitigation:
resolvers and clients MUST ignore prior domain components when evaluating the DID, as
described in Unique Assignment of DIDs.
The use of DNSSEC [RFC4033], [RFC4034], [RFC4035] is essential to prevent spoofing and
ensure authenticity of DNS records.

§ 4.2 Residual Risks
Residual risks include:
Compromise of the web hosting infrastructure serving the DID resources.
While this can impact access to the DID Log and associated files, it does not
compromise the integrity of the log entries themselves, nor the verifiability of the DID.
Compromise of controller private keys.
A did:webvh DID Controller can mitigate this risk through the use of pre-rotation
keys.
In doing so, DID Controller's SHOULD avoid reusing revealed pre‑rotation keys. While
not invalid per this specification, re‑use of a pre‑rotation key after disclosure reduces
compromise containment. Mitigation: follow the one‑time‑use best practice and
securely destroy revealed private keys (see Pre‑rotation Key Hash Generation and
Verification). Resolvers are NOT REQUIRED to enforce this, but MAY warn.
Additional good security practices SHOULD also be followed, such as using hardware
security modules (HSMs) or secure enclaves for key storage, enforcing strong access
controls, maintaining secure backups of critical keys, and performing regular key
rotations.
Weaknesses in underlying cryptographic algorithms after deployment.
Misconfiguration of cache control or TTL values.
Implementation errors in DID resolvers or controllers.

§ 4.3 Integrity Protection and Update Authentication
All DID operations (create, update, deactivate) are integrity-protected by the cryptographic
verification of DID Log entries. Update authentication is provided by verifying the DID
Controller's proof(s) against the valid updateKeys in the DID Parameters.
Because a did:webvh DID document and its associated log entries are self-certifying, they
can be verified and trusted regardless of how they are retrieved — whether directly from the
host, via a cache, through a CDN, from a DID Watcher, or via a trusted resolver service. The
verification process ensures authenticity and integrity independent of the transport channel.

§ 4.4 Authentication Characteristics
The authentication of DID updates is based on possession of the private keys associated with
the update and pre-rotation keys. The security of the DID therefore depends on the strength of
these keys, their secure storage, and the cryptographic algorithms used.

§ 4.5 Unique Assignment of DIDs
In did:webvh , uniqueness of a DID is based on the self-certifying identifier (SCID) generated
at the inception of the DID. The SCID is cryptographically bound to the DID Controller’s keys
and ensures that no two independently created DIDs can have the same identifier.
The DNS portion of the DID is used solely for discovery of the DID Log and associated files; it
is not used for verification of DID control. Further, the DNS name does not need to be owned
or directly controlled by the DID Controller. For example, a DID can be published within a
namespace provided by a hosting platform (e.g., a GitHub repository or pages site) that
serves static files over HTTPS. In such cases, platform policies and HTTPS server
authentication are relied upon for access and integrity at the transport layer, while DID
verification is provided entirely by the SCID and verifiable history of the DID.
A did:webvh identifier may include a domain component that was never actually used to
host its DID Log, before being moved — via the did:webvh portability capability — to a
different domain under the DID Controller’s control. This creates a potential for misleading
claims of association with the original domain. To prevent this, resolvers and clients of
resolvers MUST ignore any prior domain components when evaluating the history or
trustworthiness of a did:webvh DID; only the current hosting location and its associated
verifiable history are relevant. In addition, the whois DID URL capability SHOULD be used to
obtain attestations about the DID and DID Controller from relevant authorities.

§ 4.6 Endpoint Authentication
DID resource retrieval endpoints MUST be authenticated using TLS server authentication. Selfsigned certificates SHOULD NOT be used in production. This requirement is not unique to the
did:webvh method; it applies to all web traffic. While the verifiability of did:webvh ensures
that any tampering with the contents of individual log entries is detectable, TLS provides
additional protection against active network attacks (including truncation or withholding) and
ensures the authenticity of the server providing the DID resources.

§ 4.7 Network Topology
Unlike DLT-based DID methods, did:webvh relies on web infrastructure and does not require
peer-to-peer networking. However, implementations relying on CDN caching or load balancers
MUST ensure these intermediaries do not serve stale or tampered DID data.

§ 4.8 Cryptographic Protection
The following data is protected:
DID Log entries — Signed by the DID controller’s keys.
Witness proofs — Signed by witness nodes’ keys.
These signatures provide integrity and update authentication but not confidentiality; DID Log
entries are public.
Secret data (e.g., controller private keys, witness private keys, random seeds) MUST be
protected in secure storage and never exposed in the DID Log.

§ 4.9 Signature Implementation
did:webvh uses standard Data Integrity proof mechanisms for signing DID Log entries and

witness proofs, as defined in the cryptographic suite used. Implementations MUST follow the
suite’s signature generation and verification requirements.

§ 4.10 International Domain Names
did:webvh implementers MAY publish DID Logs on domains that use international domains.

The DID-to-HTTPS Transformation section of this specification MUST be followed by DID
Controllers and DID resolvers to ensure the proper handling of international domains.

§ 4.11 Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) Policy Considerations
To support scenarios where DID resolution is performed by client applications running in a
web browser, the file served for the DID Log needs to be accessible by any origin. To enable
this, the DID Log HTTP response MUST include the following header:
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *

§ 4.12 Publishing parallel did:web
did:webvh implementers that consider publishing parallel did:web DID SHOULD evaluate

security impact from losing added security properties of did:webvh and refer to did:web
Security and Privacy Considerations for additional guidance.

§ 4.13 Post Quantum Attacks
did:webvh Key Pre-Rotation approach provides enough flexibility for “post-quantum safety”.

For guidance on post-quantum attacks mitigation, implementors SHOULD refer to
corresponding Implementation Guide section.

§ 5. Privacy Considerations
This section addresses the privacy considerations in alignment with [RFC6973] Section 5 and
the [DID-CORE] requirements in DID Core 7.4.
§ 5.1 Surveillance
The did:webvh method publishes DID logs to publicly accessible HTTPS endpoints. While
the contents of the DID Log are generally intended to be public, the timing, frequency, and
correlation of updates can be observed and may reveal operational patterns or associations.
Resolution of a did:webvh identifier also exposes the resolver’s network activity to DNS
providers and web servers, which could be used for tracking. Controllers and resolvers MAY
use privacy-enhancing technologies such as VPNs, TOR, or trusted universal resolver services,
and MAY adopt emerging approaches such as Oblivious DNS over HTTPS (ODoH) to reduce
this risk.

§ 5.2 Stored Data Compromise
DID data is stored on web servers. A compromise of the hosting infrastructure could allow
tampering with DID resources. HTTPS and cryptographic signatures protect integrity, but
confidentiality is not provided.

§ 5.3 Unsolicited Traffic
Publishing a DID Log does not inherently solicit inbound traffic beyond normal DID resolution.
However, public exposure of service endpoints in the DID Document may increase unsolicited
interactions. DID Controllers SHOULD avoid publishing unnecessary endpoints.

§ 5.4 Misattribution
Because the DNS portion of the DID is used for discovery, a misattribution risk arises if that
DNS name is reassigned without the associated DID resources being updated or removed.
Controllers SHOULD ensure DID deactivation before relinquishing a DNS name or namespace.
Where possible, Controllers SHOULD use the DID Portability mechanism defined in this
specification to move the DID to a new location under their control. When portability is used,
an HTTP redirect from the old location to the new one is the preferred approach, even in
cases where DID ownership is transferred, as it enables seamless resolution while preserving
the DID’s verifiable history.

§ 5.5 Correlation
The use of a static DID and public DID Log entries can enable correlation of activities over
time. Controllers SHOULD avoid embedding personal identifiers or unnecessary service
endpoints in DID documents.

§ 5.6 Identification
DIDs are public identifiers and can be linked to real-world identities through their domain
ownership. Entities that require anonymity SHOULD consider DID methods designed for
pseudonymity.

§ 5.7 Right to Erasure (GDPR Art. 17)
While it’s possible for DID Controller to delete published data as described in Deactivate
(Revoke) operation, it’s RECOMMENDED for monitoring watchers to cache last known state
indefinitely. This means that ability and specific process of complete data erasure depends
on watchers behavior and SHOULD be defined by governance of ecosystem.

§ 5.8 Secondary Use
Information published in the DID Log may be repurposed by third parties. Controllers SHOULD
minimize the publication of data that could be used for purposes beyond the intended use.

§ 5.9 Disclosure
All data in the DID Log is publicly accessible. Sensitive data MUST NOT be included.

§ 5.10 Exclusion
did:webvh uses DNS for discovery, and while the DID Controller may control the web server

on which a did:webvh DID is published, the DID Method does not require controller
ownership of a DNS domain. Controllers MAY publish the DID Log and associated resources
under a namespace they control on a web‑hosting platform that serves static files over
HTTPS (for example, a GitHub repository or pages space). This reduces barriers to
participation.

Residual exclusion risks remain: access to such platforms typically requires an account and
compliance with provider terms of service; platforms might impose geoblocking, payment
requirements, or content restrictions; and accounts can be suspended. Controllers SHOULD
maintain the ability to republish or mirror DID resources under alternative hosts (including
using did:webvh Watchers) and SHOULD document a transition plan so that participants are
not locked out if a hosting provider becomes unavailable. The verifiable history of the DID
ensures that the DID can be verified regardless of the source of the DID Log and related files.

§ 5.11 No Phone Home Mitigations
A privacy concern in decentralized identity ecosystems is the possibility of an issuer of
identity information (such as Verifiable Credentials) being notified when and where individuals
present those credentials. This “phone home” surveillance problem (such as described by
nophonehome.com) can occur if the presentation of a credential requires contacting the
issuer’s infrastructure, either directly or indirectly, in a way that can be linked to the credential
holder. As did:webvh issuer DIDs may be self-hosted, this is particularly relevant.
While this concern is generally associated with the use of verifiable credentials rather than
about the resolution of DIDs, a did:webvh server operated by an issuer might host related
resources that are retrieved at credential presentation time — for example, revocation
registries or status lists. If these resources are implemented in a way that enables linking
access patterns to individual credential holders, the DID Controller could use that information
for surveillance.
Privacy-respecting credential issuers, credential holders, and verifiers all have a role in
preventing “phone home” surveillance. The following practices can help:
Privacy-respecting Issuers (including DID Controllers hosting VC-related resources)
SHOULD NOT design or deploy credential-related resources (such as revocation
registries) in a way that enables the identification of individual holders at presentation
time.
Use privacy-preserving designs — such as compact status lists, batching, and/or large
revocation registries that provide “lost in a crowd” anonymity — to prevent correlation
of access patterns to specific credential holders.
Use HTTP caching headers (e.g., Cache-Control , ETag ) to enable CDNs, browsers,
and resolvers to cache DID resources efficiently, reducing repeated origin requests that
could enable tracking and improving performance.
Holders
Use privacy-preserving techniques such as using DID Watchers, trusted intermediaries,
or privacy-enhancing network tools (e.g., TOR, VPN) to retrieve revocation status data
without revealing the holder’s location or identity to the issuer.
Separate in time interactions with the issuer (e.g., retrieving revocation status) from
credential presentations to verifiers, and structure retrievals to avoid creating
identifiable access patterns that could enable correlation or surveillance.
Verifiers
Be flexible in the timeliness of credential status checks, and consider omitting them
entirely when risk is low, reducing or eliminating the need for the retrieval of status
data.
Separate the retrieval of status or issuer data from the verification process by caching
issuer-provided information where possible, so holders are not required to contact the
issuer in real time.
Use privacy-enhancing network tools (e.g., TOR, VPN) or trusted intermediary resolvers
to retrieve DID resources in a way that avoids revealing verifier identity or network
location to the issuer or hosting provider.
Where possible, support privacy-preserving resolution protocols or intermediaries
offered by the hosting party.
A related risk is that an issuer may deliberately or inadvertently create holder-specific
identifiers for data elements that are expected to be common across all holders — for
example, by issuing personalized revocation list URLs or unique resource paths. This enables
tracking of specific holders even if the underlying credential is otherwise privacy-preserving.
Preventing this requires shared responsibility: issuers MUST NOT generate such holderspecific identifiers; holders and verifiers SHOULD reject credentials or status mechanisms
that contain them; and independent third parties, including DID Watchers, SHOULD monitor
issuer implementations to detect and report violations of this principle.

§ 6. Definitions
base58btc
Applies [[spec:draft-msporny-base58-03]] to convert data to a base58 encoding. Used in
did:webvh for encoding hashes for SCIDs and entry hashes.
Data Integrity
W3C Data Integrity is a specification of mechanisms for ensuring the authenticity and
integrity of structured digital documents using cryptography, such as digital signatures
and other digital mathematical proofs.
Decentralized Identifier
Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) [DID-CORE] are a type of identifier that enable verifiable,
decentralized digital identities. A DID refers to any subject (e.g., a person, organization,
thing, data model, abstract entity, etc.) as determined by the controller of the DID.
DID Controller
The entity that controls (create, updates, deletes) a given DID, as defined in the [DIDCORE].
DIDDoc
A DID Document as defined by the [DID-CORE] – the document returned when a DID is
resolved.
DID Log
A DID Log is a list of Entries, with an entry added for each update of the DID, including
new versions of the DIDDoc or changed information necessary to generate or validate the
DID.
DID Log Entry
A DID Log Entry is a JSON object that defines the authorized transformation of a DIDDoc
from one version to the next. The initial entry establishes the DID and version 1 of the
DIDDoc. All entries are stored in the DID Log.
DID Method
DID methods are the mechanism by which a particular type of DID and its associated DID
document are created, resolved, updated, and deactivated. DID methods are defined using
separate DID method specifications. This document is the DID Method Specification for
did:webvh .
DID Portability

did:webvh portability is the capability to change the DID string for the DID while retaining

the SCID and the history of the DID. This is useful when forced to change (such as when
an organization is acquired by another, resulting in a change of domain names) and when
changing DID hosting service providers.
DID Resources
A DID Resource is an object (often a file) that is referenced by a DID URL, with a path to
the resource. The DID URL allows resolvers to locate and retrieve specific content
associated with a DID. Examples include configuration files, schemas, credential
definitions, or other structured data linked to the DID.
did:web

did:web as described in the W3C specification is a DID method that leverages the

Domain Name System (DNS) to perform the DID operations. It is valued for its simplicity
and ease of deployment compared to DID methods that are based on distributed ledgers
or blockchain technology, but also comes with increased challenges related to trust,
security and verifiability. did:web provides a starting point for did:webvh , which
complements did:web with specific features to address its challenges while still
providing ease of deployment.
Entry Hash
A did:webvh entry hash is a hash generated using a formally defined process over the
input data to a log entry, excluding the Data Integrity proof. The input data includes
content from the predecessor to the version of the DID, ensuring that all the versions are
“chained” together in a sort of microledger. The generated entry hash is subsequently
included in the versionId of the log entry and MUST be verified by a resolver.
ISO8601
A date/time expressed using the ISO8601 Standard.
JSON Canonicalization Scheme
[RFC8785] defines a method for canonicalizing a JSON structure such that is suitable for
verifiable hashing or signing.
JSON Lines
A file of JSON Lines, as described on the site https://jsonlines.org/. In short, JSONL is
lines of JSON with whitespace removed and separated by a newline that is convenient for
handling streaming JSON data or log files.
Pre-Rotation
A technique for a controller of a cryptographic key to commit to the public key it will rotate
to next, without exposing that actual public key. It protects from an attacker that gains
knowledge of the current private key from being able to rotate to a new key known only to
the attacker.
Linked-VP
A [DID-CORE] service entry that specifies where a verifiable presentation about the DID
subject can be found. The Decentralized Identity Foundation hosts the Linked VP
Specification.
multibase
A specification for encoding binary data as a string using a prefix that indicates the
encoding.
multikey
A verification method that encodes key types into a single binary stream that is then
encoded as a multibase value.
multihash
Per the [MULTIFORMATS], multihash is a specification for differentiating instances of
hashes. Software creating a hash prefixes (according to the specification) data to the hash
indicating the algorithm used and the length of the hash, so that software receiving the
hash knows how to verify it. Although multihash supports many hash algorithms, for
interoperability, DID Controllers MUST only use the hash algorithms defined in this
specification as permitted.
parameters

did:webvh parameters are a defined set of configurations that control how the issuer has

generated the DID, and how the resolver must process the DID Log entries. The use of
parameters allows for the controlled evolution of did:webvh log handling, such as
evolving the set of permitted hash algorithms or cryptosuites. This enables support for
very long lasting identifiers – decades.

self-certifying identifier
An object identifier derived from initial data such that an attacker could not create a new
object with the same identifier. The input for a did:webvh SCID is the initial DIDDoc with
the placeholder {SCID} wherever the SCID is to be placed.
Verifiable Credential
A verifiable credential can represent all of the same information that a physical credential
represents, adding technologies such as digital signatures, to make the credentials more
tamper-evident and so more trustworthy than their physical counterparts. The Verifiable
Credential Data Model is a W3C Standard.
Verifiable Presentation
A verifiable presentation data model is part W3C’s Verifiable Credential Data Model that
contains a set of verifiable credentials about a credentialSubject , and a signature
across the verifiable credentials generated by that subject. In this specification, the use
case of primary interest is where the DID is the credentialSubject and the DID signs
the verifiable presentation.
watcher
Watchers are entities within a decentralized trust ecosystem that monitor Decentralized
Identifiers (DIDs) for changes or updates on behalf of their clients. Watchers maintain a
historical cache of DID document versions and verify that the DID Controller is consistently
following the prescribed evolution process. By ensuring integrity and traceability, watchers
help foster trust among clients who rely on up-to-date and authentic DID information.
did:webvh watchers provide endpoints for retrieving DID information and to receive
webhooks notifying the watcher about updates to the DID and deletion requests.
webhook
A webhook is a mechanism that enables real-time communication between systems by
sending HTTP callbacks (typically POST requests) to a specified URL when an event
occurs. Webhooks are commonly used for event-driven integrations and automation.
Although webhooks are an implementation pattern rather than a formal standard, best
practices are documented in [RFC8030].
witness
Witnesses are participants in the process of creating and verifying a version of a
did:webvh DIDDoc. Notably, a witness receives from the DID Controller a DID entry ready
for publication, verifies it according to this specification, and approves it according to its
ecosystem governance (whatever that might be). If the verification and approval process
results are positive, witnesses returns to the DID Controller a Data Integrity proof attesting
to that positive result.
threshold
An algorithm that defines when a sufficient number of witnesses have submitted valid
Data Integrity proofs for a DID Log entry such that it is approved and can be published.
The algorithm details are in the Witness Threshold Algorithm section of this specification.
W3C VCDM
A Verifiable Credential that uses the Data Model defined by the W3C [[spec: W3C-VC]]
specification.

§ 7. References
DI-EDDSA-V1.0
Data Integrity EdDSA Cryptosuites v1.0. Dave Longley; Manu Sporny; 2024-12-08. Status:
W3C Technical Recommendation.
DID-CORE
Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) v1.0. Manu Sporny; Amy Guy; Markus Sabadello;
Drummond Reed; 2022-07-19. Status: REC.
JSON-SCHEMA-CORE
JSON Schema: A Media Type for Describing JSON Documents. A. Wright; H. Andrews; B.
Hutton; G. Dennis; 2022-06-16. Status: Internet Draft.
MULTIFORMATS
Multiformats. Juan Benet; Manu Sporny; 2024-02-21. Status: Internet Draft.
RFC1035
Domain names - implementation and specification. P. Mockapetris; 1987-11. Status:
Internet Standard.
RFC1123
Requirements for Internet Hosts - Application and Support. R. Braden, Ed.; 1989-10. Status:
Internet Standard.
RFC2181
Clarifications to the DNS Specification. R. Elz; R. Bush; 1997-07. Status: Proposed
Standard.
RFC2234
Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF. D. Crocker, Ed.; P. Overell; 1997-11.
Status: Proposed Standard.
RFC3491
Nameprep: A Stringprep Profile for Internationalized Domain Names (IDN). P. Hoffman; M.
Blanchet; 2003-03. Status: Proposed Standard.
RFC3552
Guidelines for Writing RFC Text on Security Considerations. E. Rescorla; B. Korver; 200307. Status: Best Current Practice.
RFC3912
WHOIS Protocol Specification. L. Daigle; 2004-09. Status: Draft Standard.
RFC3986
Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax. T. Berners-Lee; R. Fielding; L. Masinter;
2005-01. Status: Internet Standard.
RFC4033
DNS Security Introduction and Requirements. R. Arends; R. Austein; M. Larson; D. Massey;
S. Rose; 2005-03. Status: Proposed Standard.
RFC4034
Resource Records for the DNS Security Extensions. R. Arends; R. Austein; M. Larson; D.
Massey; S. Rose; 2005-03. Status: Proposed Standard.
RFC4035
Protocol Modifications for the DNS Security Extensions. R. Arends; R. Austein; M. Larson;
D. Massey; S. Rose; 2005-03. Status: Proposed Standard.
RFC6125
Representation and Verification of Domain-Based Application Service Identity within
Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX) Certificates in the Context of
Transport Layer Security (TLS). P. Saint-Andre; J. Hodges; 2011-03. Status: Proposed
Standard.
RFC6234
US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-based HMAC and HKDF). D. Eastlake 3rd; T.
Hansen; 2011-05. Status: Informational.
RFC6973
Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols. A. Cooper; H. Tschofenig; B. Aboba; J.
Peterson; J. Morris; M. Hansen; R. Smith; 2013-07. Status: Informational.
RFC8030
Generic Event Delivery Using HTTP Push. M. Thomson; E. Damaggio; B. Raymor, Ed.; 201612. Status: Proposed Standard.
RFC8484
DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH). P. Hoffman; P. McManus; 2018-10. Status: Proposed
Standard.
RFC8785
JSON Canonicalization Scheme (JCS). A. Rundgren; B. Jordan; S. Erdtman; 2020-06.
Status: Informational.
RFC9110
HTTP Semantics. R. Fielding, Ed.; M. Nottingham, Ed.; J. Reschke, Ed.; 2022-06. Status:
Internet Standard.
RFC9233
Internationalized Domain Names for Applications 2008 (IDNA2008) and Unicode 12.0.0. P.
Fältström; 2022-03. Status: Proposed Standard.
RFC9457
Problem Details for HTTP APIs. M. Nottingham; E. Wilde; S. Dalal; 2023-07. Status:
Proposed Standard.
RFC9525
Service Identity in TLS. P. Saint-Andre; R. Salz; 2023-11. Status: Proposed Standard.
SEMVER
Semantic Versioning 2.0.0. Tom Preston-Werner; 2013-06-18. Status: Internet Draft.

§ 8. did:webvh Version Changelog
The following lists the substantive changes in each version of the specification.
Version 1.0
Adds clarifications about the handling of default values for unspecified parameters
when introduced, and defines that null should NOT be used for parameters, to
ensure that the parameter data types are always retained.
Removes the weight value and clarifies permitted values of threshold .
Adds the concept of a watcher to the specification, including the technical details of
deploying and using a watcher .
Clarifies the DID-to-HTTPS Transformation to include support for domain names using
Unicode international languages.
Version 0.5
Remove the prerotation parameter. The feature is automatically enforced when
nextKeyHashes is present.
Clarify the way the Pre-Rotation feature works, once a nextKeyHashes is committed,
the next DID log entries has to be signed by one of the committed keys.
Clarify how to stop using pre-rotation, including when deactivating the DID.
Change the witness handling by removing the witness Data Integrity proofs from the
DID Log file and puts them into a separate file did-witness.json . Adjustments to the
witness threshold algorithm were also made, such as removing the DID Controllers’
selfweight attribute, and defining that all witness DIDs must be did:key DIDs.
Clarify how to stop using witnesses.
Clarify the initialization values of parameters and that array parameters must use
null and not use empty lists ( [] ) when not active.
Rename the DID Method to did:webvh ( did:web + Verifiable History)
Move the DID Method information site to https://didwebvh.info.
Version 0.4
Removes large non-normative sections, such as the implementer’s guide, as they are
now published on the https://didtdw.org/ information site.
Removes the use of JSON Patch from the specification. The full DIDDoc is included in
each DID log entry.
Changes the data format of the DID log entries from an array to an object. The DID
Log remains in the JSON Lines format.
Changes the DID log entry array to be named JSON objects or properties.
Makes each DID version’s Data Integrity proof apply across the JSON DID log entry
object, as is typical with Data Integrity proofs. Previously, the Data Integrity proof was
generated across the current DIDDoc version, with the versionId as the challenge.
Specified that the versionTime must be recorded as a UTC time zone timestamp.
Version 0.3
Removes the cryptosuite parameter, moving it to implied based on the method
parameter.
Change base32 encoding with base58btc, as it offers a better expansion rate.
Remove the step to extract part of the base58btc result during the generation of the
SCID.
Use multihash in the SCID to differentiate the different hash function outputs.
Version 0.2
Changes the location of the SCID in the DID to always be the first component after the
DID Method prefix – did:tdw:<scid>:... .
Adds the parameter portable to enable the capability to move a did:tdw during the
creation of the DID.
Removes the first two Log Entry items entryHash and versionId and replacing
them with the new versionId as the first item in each log entry. The new versionId
takes the form <version number>-<entryHash> , where <version number> is the
incrementing integer of version of the entry: 1, 2, 3, etc.
The <did>/whois media type is changed to application/vp and the file is changed
to whois.vp to match the IANA registration of a Verifiable Presentation.
